National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

Advancing 
NASA’s 
Climate 
Strategy

www.nasa.gov

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  1

2023National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

Advancing 
NASA’s 
Climate 
Strategy

NASATable of 
Contents

National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

Executive Summary

Background and Context

NASA’s Climate Portfolio 

2

4

7

Status and Challenges  10

Priorities and Needs

Priority 1: Innovate

Priority 2: Inform

Priority 3: Inspire

Priority 4: Partner

Last Word

14

15

19

22

24

27

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  1

 
 
 
 
 
Executive 
Summary

NASA’s climate mission is 
to observe, understand, and 
address climate change 
through science, exploration 
and innovation for the 
benefit for all. 

NASA uses the vantage point of space and its expertise in aeronautics to 
innovate, inform, and inspire for the benefit of all. NASA is a leader and trusted 
partner in providing climate and Earth system observations, modeling, research, 
applications, technology, and actionable information to scientists, decision-
makers, and the public. NASA’s free and open data powers research across 
the federal government, academia, and the private sector. The agency also 
works alongside international, federal, state, and local partners to advance 
understanding of and response to our changing planet. 

NASA’s climate portfolio is varied, extensive, and covers multiple missions and 
focus areas. To help assess and advance NASA’s climate strategy, a Climate 
Strategy Working Group (CSWG) was created and now falls under the guidance of 
the Office of the Chief Scientist. The CSWG found:

• With more than two dozen satellites and instruments observing key climate 

indicators, NASA, in coordination with its domestic and international 
partners, remains the world’s leading agency for observing and 
understanding changes to the Earth system;

• NASA has decades of experience developing technologies that contribute 

to reducing emissions and enhancing sustainability; and 

• NASA delivers climate-related information and resources to a wide range of 

government and university partners as well as the public.

The breadth of NASA’s climate efforts presents challenges in, and opportunities 
for, intra-agency coordination. In addition, there are many other governmental and 
non-governmental entities engaged in climate-related research and technology 

development that present partnering opportunities and a need to clearly 
articulate NASA’s role. There is also a need to continue to improve 
the discoverability, accessibility, and usability of NASA’s climate 

information and technology. Finally, climate is changing, which 
impacts research needs and our own operations (including 

mission safety and timely attainment of milestones).

To address these challenges and achieve our climate 
mission, the CSWG identified four major priorities and 
several needs within each priority. These priorities are to 
innovate, inform, inspire, and partner. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy | 2

Priorities

Priority 1
INNOVATE

Priority 2
INFORM

Priority 3
INSPIRE

Priority 4
PARTNER

1.1. Advance climate and Earth science through novel observations, including 
the Earth System Observatory, associated research and modeling, and the 
creation of societally useful applications.
1.2. Advance the development and use of aeronautics and space technologies 
that enable us to understand, mitigate, and adapt to climate change. 
1.3. Promote Earth-based applications of technologies developed for space 
exploration, space operations, and aviation for climate adaptation and mitigation.
1.4. Ensure sustainability of NASA centers and facilities, including reducing 
agency greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and increasing resiliency to climate 
variability and change.

2.1. Increase discoverability, accessibility, and usability of climate and Earth 
science information.
2.2. Support communities and stakeholders in preparing for and responding to 
climate change by enhancing information, tools, applications, and resources that 
draw on NASA observations, models, and people to improve societal resilience.
2.3. Address climate change impacts in underserved and vulnerable 
communities by promoting equity in the collection and use of climate and Earth 
science information.

3.1. Help humanity understand and prepare for climate change by improving 
stakeholder and public awareness of and access to NASA climate discoveries, 
information, and technology.
3.2. Enhance and support climate literacy of the NASA workforce and those 
who work with NASA.
3.3. Inspire and educate the next generation of climate researchers  
and citizens.

4.1. Facilitate coordination and partnerships with other federal agencies, 
international entities, and state, local, and tribal governments to deliver 
actionable climate information to stakeholders, and ensure the broadest 
applicability of NASA climate information and technologies.
4.2. Expand ongoing successful partnerships and determine the appropriate role 
for NASA in collaborating with the growing number of commercial entities and non-
profit organizations conducting climate observations, research, and applications.
4.3. Increase coordination and collaboration among NASA centers and 
mission directorates with respect to climate research and climate-related 
technology development.

The CSWG has sought to better understand the agency’s current climate portfolio, 
articulate challenges, and identify opportunities to advance NASA’s climate efforts. 
The result, “Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy,” outlines priorities and needs that 
can enable the continuation and expansion of a legacy of robust contributions to 
understanding the Earth’s changing climate, providing actionable information to those 
who need it, and innovating for the benefit of humanity. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  3

National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

Background 
and Context

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  4

NASABackground 
and Context

Television InfraRed 
Observations 
Satellite 1(TIROS-1)

Climate is changing. Earth’s average surface temperature in 2022 was 
tied for the fifth warmest on record, with the nine most recent years 
being the warmest since modern record keeping began. Along with 
increases in temperature, there are other changes in the Earth system, including 
declines in Arctic sea ice, increases in sea level, and increases in extreme events. 
For example, the number of record high temperature events in the United States 
has been increasing since 1950; and the U.S. has also witnessed increasing 
numbers of intense rainfall events.

NASA is the U.S. space agency that provides end-to-end research about our 
home planet, including observations, models, decision support, and technology 
development. NASA has a long history of Earth observations and climate research, 
beginning with the Television InfraRed Observations Satellite (TIROS) in the 1960s. 
While NASA has traditionally focused on researching the Earth system, including 
changes in climate, its centers and facilities are also impacted by climate change.

By statute, NASA is the lead agency for civil aeronautics research and conducts 
aeronautics research and development to “increase the efficiency of the Nation’s air 
transportation system” and “protect the environment” (51 U.S.C. § 40102). NASA 
has also been tasked with performing scientific research that can be productively 
studied from space, including “Earth Science research and research on the Sun-Earth 
connection through the development and operation of satellites and other means” 
(51 U.S.C. § 20301(a)(3)(B)). Specifically, NASA shall “pursue a program of Earth 
observations, research, and applications activities to better understand the Earth, how 
it supports life, and how human activities affect its ability to do so in the future” (51 
U.S.C. § 60501). Additionally, the law acknowledges that “securing practical benefits 
for society will be an important measure of [the success of these programs] in addition 
to securing new knowledge about the Earth system and climate change.” NASA 
is also tasked with ensuring that the climate-related data generated from its grant 
awards is made available to be shared among other researchers “to enhance and 
facilitate their availability and widest possible use to ensure public access to accurate 
and current data on global warming” (51 U.S.C. § 60506). 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  5

NASABackground and Context

NASA is one of many U.S. Government Agencies that researches climate. 
There are several interagency coordination efforts related to climate change, 
including the National Climate Task Force and the U.S. Global Change 
Research Program (USGCRP). In addition, the National Space Council 
identified climate as a priority topic. There are also several climate-related 
Executive Orders (E.O.) that affect NASA, including:

EO14008:  
Tackling the Climate 
Crisis at Home and 
Abroad (January 
27, 2021), which 
mandated the 
development of the 
Agency Climate Action 
Plan (CAP); 

EO14057: 
 Catalyzing Clean Energy 
Industries and Jobs Through 
Federal Sustainability (Decembe
8, 2021), which directs the 
federal government to reduce 
emissions from federal 
operations and invest in clean 
energy industries; and

r 

EO13985: 
Advancing Racial Equity and 
Support for Underserved 
Communities Through the Federa
l 
Government (January 20, 2021), 
which led to the development of 
NASA’s Equity Action Plan which
includes an action on climate and
Earth science information.

The CSWG was created under the leadership of the Senior Climate Advisor to 
help navigate the intra- and inter-agency climate landscape and develop a NASA-
wide strategy for climate. The motivating questions that the CSWG is addressing 
in this report include:

• What is NASA’s current portfolio in climate-related research?

• Where is NASA leading in climate change observations,  

research, and technology?

• Where are there opportunities to strengthen NASA’s climate portfolio? 

• What is NASA’s role in climate-related research and technology 

development, relative to other federal agencies, international agencies, and 
other actors (e.g., non-profit organizations, private industry)? 

This report is intended to help coordinate and advance NASA’s 

climate efforts internally, as well as facilitate communication of 
NASA’s portfolio externally.

Artemis I Flight Day 13: 
Orion, Earth and Moon

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  6

NASA 
 
National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

NASA’s Climate
Portfolio

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  7

NASANASA’s Climate 
Portfolio

NASA’s climate portfolio is varied, extensive, and covers multiple 
missions and focus areas. Research in climate processes and long-
term trends is conducted mainly, but not exclusively, through the 
Science Mission Directorate (SMD) in the Earth Science Division (ESD). 
Broadly, the ESD implements the current and future Earth observing missions, 
including the mission science and applications teams, modeling and analysis, and 
technology development to maximize the science and applications potential. This 
encompasses the development of new Earth observing instruments, monitoring 
of long-term climate trends, observing the climate processes that are essential 
to understanding and predicting climate changes, supporting observation-led 
model development, supporting the use of these models and observations in 
applications, and provision of data to user communities. Additionally, through 
ESD’s Commercial Smallsat Data Acquisition Program, NASA is leveraging 
commercial capabilities through the purchase of data from several commercial 
remote-sensing companies. 

In the other SMD divisions, the Heliophysics Division (HPD) supports research into 
the impacts of the Sun on Earth’s climate, while the Planetary Science Division 
(PSD) and Astrophysics Division (APD) investigate habitability on Earth throughout 
its 4.5 billion-year history through the Astrobiology Program. These divisions 
also study climate conditions on solar system bodies and newly characterized 
exoplanets (planets beyond the solar system), looking at signs of habitability and 
climate systems in general on distant worlds. This research often uses climate 
models that were initially developed for modern Earth conditions and expanded to 
encompass this increasingly broad range of environments. 

NASA’s climate portfolio also encompasses research and technology development 
in aeronautics and space technology, focused on clean energy, environmental 
monitoring, and sustainable aviation. The Aeronautics Research Mission 
Directorate (ARMD) supports U.S. leadership in global aviation by advancing the 
state of the art to dramatically improve the efficiency of civil aircraft and engines 
and develop new operational concepts for aviation. This includes research and 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  8

NASA’s Climate Portfolio

An artist’s concept of the 
transonic truss-braced 
wing aircraft configuration.

technology development for sustainable aviation 
through increasing fuel efficiency, reductions in 
other pollutants, aircraft operations research, 
and the development of new hybrid and fully 
electric powertrains for aircraft.1 

The Space Technology Mission Directorate 
(STMD) seeks to transform NASA space missions 
and ensure American leadership in the space economy by rapidly developing, 
demonstrating, and transferring revolutionary, high-payoff space technologies driven 
by diverse ideas. Climate-relevant investments include technology development 
across the breadth of NASA’s missions, including: clean energy creation (e.g., 
solar, small-scale nuclear, and bioenergy, higher efficiency battery and energy 
storage, cryogenic storage and transfer enabling a hydrogen economy); mitigation 
solutions (e.g., conversion of carbon dioxide to oxygen, carbon dioxide regulation 
technology in space environments); sensor and spacecraft platform development for 
improved Earth observations in situ and from space; software to improve modeling, 
simulation, assimilation; and decision support for prediction and climate mitigation, 
as well as increased aircraft efficiency and electric aircraft propulsion. In addition to 
conducting technology development projects with a diverse group of awardees from 
early stages to technology demonstrations, STMD also advances NASA’s mission 
and enhances connections with the public through open innovation tools, and 
approaches, markets, and licenses NASA’s patent portfolio to create commercial 
products to benefit the nation.

The International Space Station (ISS), under the purview 
of the Space Operations Mission Directorate (SOMD), 
has become a significant Earth observation platform, 
with numerous science instruments aboard. Many of the 
Earth observing instruments on the ISS are sponsored by 
SMD/ESD. Other Earth observation payloads have been 
developed by external partners (e.g., other U.S. Government 
Agencies, or international partners such as the Japanese 
Aerospace Exploration Agency, or JAXA) and sponsored 
by SOMD. The ISS also advances sustainability technology 
that benefits Earth, including water and air recycling, and 
food production. Water recycling technology, sponsored by 
the Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate 

International 
Space Station

(ESDMD) and SOMD, has been used in rural and disaster relief applications 
on Earth; oxygen recovery and food production technology, sponsored by the 
ESDMD, are both leveraging from and contributing to terrestrial applications. 

The Mission Support Directorate (MSD) and specifically the Office of Strategic 
Infrastructure (OSI) work to both assess the agency’s carbon footprint, support 
center sustainability plans, and track the resilience of NASA infrastructure in the 
face of climate change. 

1 See here for more details: https://www.nasa.gov/aeroresearch/nasa-aims-for-climate-friendly-aviation; 
https://www.nasa.gov/aeroresearch/nasa-plans-for-subsonic-flight-demonstrator; https://www.nasa.gov/
aeroresearch/solicitations; https://sam.gov/opp/6c070678508b4897a48270073da7edfe/view

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  9

NASANASA’s Climate Portfolio

CYGNSS (8)

NISTAR, EPIC

GRACE-FO (2)

2015

SMAP

OCO-2

2020

ICESAT-2

SENTINEL-6
MICHAEL FREILICH

LIS

SAGE III

TSIS-1

ECOSTRESS

GEDI

OCO-3

1995

EMIT

CLARREO-PF

LANDSAT-9

TROPICS (4)

SWOT

TEMPO

LANDSAT 7

TERRA

2000

GPM

LANDSAT 8

SUOMI NPP

2010

CALIPSO

AQUA

AURA

CLOUDSAT

PREFIRE (2)

2005

EARTH FLEET

INVEST/CUBESATS

CIRIS 2023
NACHOS 2022
CTIM 2022
NACHOS-2 2022
SNOOPI* 2022
MURI-FO* 2022
HYTI* 2023

JPSS INSTRUMENTS

OMPS-LIMB 2022
LIBERA 2027
OMPS-LIMB 2027
OMPS-LIMB 2032

ISS INSTRUMENTS

NISAR

MAIA*

KEY

INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS
U.S. PARTNER
ISS INSTRUMENT
JPSS INSTRUMENT
CUBESAT
LAUNCH DATE TBD

(PRE) FORMULATION
IMPLEMENTATION
OPERATING
EXTENDED

102.01.22

PACE

TSIS-2*

2025

SENTINEL-6B

GLIMR*

INCUS*

LANDSAT NEXT*

ESO-1, 2, 3, 4*

MISSIONS

NASA’s Earth 
Fleet is the 
global leader in 
surveying climate 
change and 
climate process 
from space

NASA’s communications and outreach efforts are committed to informing, 
inspiring, and involving the public. Through media engagement, communication 
campaigns, press releases, web feature stories, video and audio storytelling, a 
robust web presence, social media and partnerships, NASA informs the public 
about climate-related research, applications, and technology, and engages people 
of all ages in learning about climate and the Earth system. NASA’s Office of STEM 
Engagement (OSTEM) plays an important role in preparing a diverse workforce 
and bringing NASA climate-related knowledge to students, by engaging students 
in authentic learning experiences with NASA’s people, content, and facilities, and 
attracting diverse groups of students to STEM. NASA mission directorates also 
support these objectives through individual and collaborative activities.

Additionally, NASA’s federated organization through different field centers 
has allowed for independent development of climate-related expertise and 
connections to stakeholders across the country and internationally. 

Status and Challenges
The inventory of current activities reveals an impressive array of efforts across the 
agency, demonstrating how NASA is paving the way on many aspects of climate-
related research and applications (see box above). To support this strategy, the 
CSWG assessed the status of NASA’s climate portfolio and found:

• With more than two dozen satellites and instruments observing key 

climate indicators, and with the upcoming Earth System Observatory 
(ESO), NASA, in coordination with its domestic and international partners, 
remains the world’s leading agency for observing and understanding 
changes to the Earth system; 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  10

NASANASA’s Climate Portfolio

• NASA has decades of experience developing technologies that contribute 

to reducing emissions and enhancing sustainability; and 

• NASA delivers climate-related information and resources to a wide range of 

government and university partners as well as the public.

In assessing the efficacy and impact of the agency’s current activities, the CSWG 
identified several challenges that this strategy aims to address:

• Climate change involves or touches almost the entire agency, including 

every mission directorate. Agency activities go beyond climate research to 
significant investment in climate-related technology in aeronautics, clean energy, 
environmental monitoring, and applications. Furthermore, the agency has key 
infrastructure at risk from climate change and has begun to consider GHG 
emissions and climate in its planning and sustainability processes. This breadth 
presents challenges in, and opportunities for, intra-agency coordination; 

• There are many other governmental and non-governmental actors engaged in 
climate-related research and technology development that present partnering 
opportunities and a need to clearly articulate NASA’s role in climate; 

• There is a need to continue to improve the discoverability, accessibility, and 

usability of NASA’s climate information and technology; and

• Climate is changing, which impacts research needs and NASA’s operations 

(including mission safety and timely attainment of milestones). 

Selected Highlights of the Breadth and Quality of NASA’s Climate Portfolio

NASA’s climate portfolio is varied, extensive, and covers multiple missions and focus areas. This 
box highlights a small set of examples for six different focus areas.

Sea level rise and coastal impacts

Observations: NASA has several satellites and field campaigns focused on ocean, ice, and 
sea level rise. For example, NASA, together with NOAA, the European Space Agency (ESA), the 
French Space Agency (CNES), and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological 
Satellites (EUMETSAT), have measured sea level rise for ~30 years using a series of satellite 
altimeters. Additionally, the GRACE and GRACE-FO missions, a partnership with the German 
Aeospace Center (DLR) and the German Research Center for Geosciences (GFZ) have provided 
powerful evidence for ice sheet and glacier loss. The Oceans Melting Greenland field campaign 
helped scientists understand the role of ocean warming in ice sheet loss.

Research, Analysis, and Applications: The Sea Level Change Portal provides for sea level 
information based on satellite observations, climate models, and projected scenarios of future sea 
level change, including the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, National 
Climate Assessment, and high-tide flood estimates (https://sealevel.nasa.gov). 

Implementation: NASA periodically performs shoreline restoration and beach renourishment efforts 
at Wallops Flight Facility and Kennedy Space Center. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  11

NASA’s Climate Portfolio

Selected Highlights of the Breadth and Quality of NASA’s Climate Portfolio (continued)

Health and Air Quality

Observations: The Dutch-Finnish Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) on the Aura satellite is one 
of a number of space-based instruments that measure ozone and air pollutants from space. 

Research, Analysis, and Applications: The Earth Observing Dashboard, developed by 
NASA, JAXA, and ESA, provides information on air quality globally (https://eodashboard.org/).

Wildfires 

Observations: NASA has several satellites and instruments in orbit that provide information 
on wildfires, including active fires, burn perimeters, and fuel for fire. For example, the Moderate 
Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instrument provides information on active fires. 

Research, Analysis, and Applications: The Fire Information for Resource Management System 
(FIRMS) provides near real-time information on active fires (https://firms.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/).

Technology and Innovation: The Scalable Traffic Management for Emergency Response 
Operations (STEReO) tests the use of NASA technology, like Unmanned Aircraft Systems, in 
responding to wildfires and other emergencies.

Greenhouse Gases 

Observations: NASA has satellites (e.g., Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO)-2), instruments on 
the ISS (e.g., OCO-3), and field campaigns (e.g., Arctic-Boreal Vulnerability Experiment or ABoVE) that 
provide information on GHGs and the carbon cycle. 

Research, Analysis, and Applications: The Carbon Monitoring System is a portfolio of projects 
that develop capabilities to support stakeholder needs for monitoring, reporting, and verification of 
carbon stocks and fluxes (https://carbon.nasa.gov/).

Technology and Innovation: The CO2 Conversion Challenge is a competition that sought to create 
a carbon dioxide-based manufacturing system that can be used in space and on Earth. It took place in 
two phases and awarded $750,000 in prize money. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  12

NASA’s Climate Portfolio

Selected Highlights of the Breadth and Quality of NASA’s Climate Portfolio (continued)

Energy and Power for Efficient Communities

Research, Analysis, and Applications: NASA POWER provides solar and meteorological data 
sets from NASA research for support of renewable energy, building energy efficiency and agricultural 
needs (https://power.larc.nasa.gov).

Technology and Innovation: The Sustainable National Flight Partnership (SNFP) will demonstrate 
the first-ever high-power hybrid-electric propulsion on a large transport aircraft, ultra-high efficiency 
long and slender aircraft wings, new large-scale manufacturing techniques of composite materials, 
and advanced engine technologies based on breakthrough NASA innovation.

Agriculture

Observations: NASA has several satellites and instruments in orbit that provide information 
about agriculture and land use. For example, the NASA-U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Landsat 
program has provided 50 years of continuous observations of land use and land cover, including 
crops and agriculture.

Research, Analysis, and Applications: NASA Harvest is a consortium of actors, including 
public, private, and universities, focused on using satellite information for agricultural applications.

Technology and Innovation: The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) is a plant growth unit 
on the ISS, which helps NASA study plant growth in microgravity to support the crew’s food 
consumption. Research into growing crops on ISS has led to improvements in LED lighting and 
fertilizers used on Earth.

In addition to studying individual areas, NASA also studies the Earth as a system, including the 
development and use of two Earth system models. NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies’ 
ModelE is NASA’s key modeling contribution to domestic and international assessment efforts, 
including the IPCC 6th Assessment Report and the upcoming 5th National Climate Assessment. 
The Goddard Earth Observing System Model (GEOS) represents dynamical, physical, chemical, 
and biological processes across a wide range of space and time scales.

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  13

National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

Priorities  
and Needs

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  14

NASAPriorities
and Needs

To address these challenges and achieve the agency’s climate mission, 
the CSWG identified four major priorities and several needs within each 
priority. These priorities are to innovate, inform, inspire, and partner. 

NASA’s Climate Mission and Description 

Mission: To observe, understand, and address climate change through science, 
exploration, and innovation for the benefit of all.

Description: NASA uses the vantage point of space and its expertise in aeronautics to innovate, 
inform, and inspire for the benefit of all. NASA is a leader and trusted partner in providing climate and 
Earth system observations, research, applications, technology, and actionable information to scientists, 
decision-makers, and the public. NASA’s free and open data powers research across the federal 
government, academia, and the private sector. The agency also works alongside international, federal, 
state, tribal and local partners to advance understanding of and response to our changing planet.

Priority 1
INNOVATE

1.1: Advance climate and Earth science through the initiation of novel 
observations, including the Earth System Observatory, associated research 
and modeling, and the creation of societally useful applications. 
NASA is a world leader in observing and understanding the Earth system. 
NASA’s existing satellite and instrument fleet provides measurements of changes 
in vegetation, carbon dioxide, Earth’s energy budget, clouds and precipitation, 
the mass of ice sheets, oceans, and much more that are integral to our current 
understanding of the Earth’s climate. NASA integrates these observations into 
scientific discovery and models to provide a more complete picture of the Earth 
system and its changes. NASA’s observations, models, and research are global 
in scope and integrate both human-induced and naturally-occurring changes to 
the Earth system. NASA’s contributions to Earth observations and modeling have 
fundamentally improved our understanding of climate and the Earth system.

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  15

Priorities and Needs

There are still many questions and uncertainties remaining that require new and 
innovative observations to answer. Some of these questions have been identified 
in the National Academies Earth Science Decadal Survey, while others emerge 
from broader initiatives and scientific efforts. To help address these questions 
and continue the agency’s leadership in observing and understanding the 
Earth system, there is a need to continue to provide innovative observations, 
applications, and associated modeling. As part of that effort, NASA will be 
developing and launching the ESO. The ESO suite of satellites will be designed 
to complement each other, working in tandem to create a three-dimensional, 
holistic view of Earth. In addition, there is a need to consider new technology, 
architectures, and partnerships for climate-relevant missions to spur new science 
and applications capabilities that increase societal value.

While most of the Earth observation and modeling efforts reside in NASA’s ESD, 
there are many opportunities for cross-NASA engagement and innovation. 
Technologies and sensors developed for other missions could help improve our 
ability to observe the Earth, just like the sensors used in the James Webb Space 
Telescope (JWST) informed development of the sensors used in the OCO missions. 
Improving our understanding and modeling of other planets, whether in our solar 
system or beyond, could improve our understanding and modeling of Earth. To 
help spur innovation in Earth observation and modeling, there is a need to facilitate 
engagement between ESD, other parts of SMD, and STMD (see also 4.3). In 
the post-ISS era, commercial low-Earth orbit (LEO) destinations could have the 
capability to host Earth observing instruments. The Commercial LEO Development 
Program under SOMD is working with SMD/ESD and HPD to identify and integrate 
their future needs for these next generation platforms. Continued collaboration 
between SMD and SOMD is needed to ensure a smooth transition post-ISS.

An illustration of NISAR, 
the pathfinder mission 
of NASA’s Earth System 
Observatory.

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  16

NASAPriorities and Needs

1.2: Advance the development and use of aeronautics and space technologies 
that enable us to understand, mitigate, and adapt to climate change.
NASA has a long history of advancing the state of the art in several technology 
areas critical to U.S. leadership in aviation, science, and exploration. NASA’s 
current climate and clean energy technology investments are spread across 
multiple mission directorates, in several technology focus areas, including: 

• GHG emissions mitigation and reduction; 

• Clean energy (production, distribution, conversion, management, 

storage, transmission, etc.);

• Sustainable aviation; 

• New observation paradigms, technologies for observation platforms, 

and instruments for climate relevant science; and

• New approaches for application, fusion, and integration of relevant 

data and technologies.

NASA’s approach to technology development for climate-related 
challenges must be strategic to focus on the most critical challenges, 
leverage limited resources to have the greatest impact, and avoid 
duplication. There is a need to increase coordination and cross-
directorate efforts to address climate technology investments (see also 
4.3). The mission directorates could incorporate climate and clean energy 
priorities into the agency’s strategic technology (STAR) framework to 
prioritize technology gaps and future investments. There is a need to use 
the full set of tools at its disposal to develop technology, including, but not 
limited to, leveraging Small Business Innovation Research/Small Business 
Technology Transfer programs to engage small businesses and entrepreneurs, using 
grants to support early-stage research at universities, and public challenges and 
prize competitions to engage innovators across the globe.

Cross-directorate coordination should prioritize the transition and infusion of new 
and innovative technologies with clear pathways for new technology inclusion in 
flight hardware and missions. This is particularly relevant as new technologies and 
architectures can spur new capabilities in science and application value including, 
for example, visualization and decision support. For example, the FireSense 
working group leverages a coordinated approach across multiple directorates to 
address wildland fire challenges.  

NASA also recognizes that in some technology areas the innovation is happening 
outside the walls of government, such as in small businesses and venture-backed 
companies. Capabilities in artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotics, and 
autonomy are advancing quickly in response to market demands. There is also a 
need to engage with the entrepreneurial community, and the funders that support 
them (see also 4.2), that are developing solutions with an eye towards sustainable 
commercial space and aeronautics markets. Advancing a culture that embraces 
risk and experimentation, advancing technology not only for new capabilities but 
also for national advantage, is paramount to NASA’s ability to support the space 
economy and combat the climate crisis. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  17

The X-57 
project is the 
agency’s first 
all-experimental 
electric aircraft, 
and an early 
part of NASA’s 
work to develop 
sustainable 
aviation solutions. 

NASAPriorities and Needs

Astronaut Serena 
Auñón-Chancellor 
harvests red 
Russian kale and 
dragoon lettuce 
from Veggie on 
Nov. 28, 2018, 
just in time for 
Thanksgiving. 
The crew got to 
enjoy a mid-
afternoon snack 
with balsamic 
vinegar, and 
Auñón-Chancellor 
reported the 
lettuce was 
“delicious!”

1.3: Promote Earth-based applications of technologies 
developed for space exploration, space operations, and aviation 
for climate adaptation and climate mitigation.
NASA has developed and improved numerous technologies that 
could have applications on Earth for reducing emissions, increasing 
energy efficiency, and enhancing sustainability. For example, to support 
astronauts living on the ISS and in research for space exploration 
missions, NASA has developed and improved several technologies that 
have applications on Earth, such as water processing, oxygen recovery 
from carbon dioxide, and crop and other food production technologies. 
The ISS National Lab is also sponsoring initiatives in partnership 
with commercial companies, with a goal of advancing sustainability 
research, such as addressing the problem of plastic waste and 

enabling scientific and technological advances that improve Earth’s environment. 
NASA’s investments are also resulting in technologies that have sustainability 
impacts in space and on Earth, including sustainable food production and clean 
power and propulsion, such as solar.

NASA has a long history of promoting the transfer of NASA-developed 
technologies into non-NASA applications for public benefit, including for climate 
and sustainability. Spinoffs include sustainable farming methods that increase crop 
yield with fewer resources, clean energy production, and tools or technologies 
that provide risk assessment models or other capabilities to address flooding and 
other climate-related natural disasters. There is a need to continue to promote 
Earth applications of technologies developed for exploration by identifying and 
protecting NASA’s intellectual property and marketing and licensing NASA’s 
patent portfolio to create commercial products to benefit the nation. There is also 
a need to continue to promote startup company formation to leverage NASA’s 
technology investments, making NASA-developed software available to industry, 
entrepreneurs, academia, and the public. 

1.4: Ensure sustainability of NASA centers and facilities, including 
reducing agency GHG emissions and increasing resiliency to climate 
variability and change. 
Climate change will have significant impacts on NASA’s ability to fulfill its mission. 
NASA has made it mandatory to integrate climate considerations into the agency’s 
policies, strategies, master plans, and partner engagements. At the same 
time, NASA, like all businesses and agencies, is a source of GHG emissions. 
Recognizing both the importance of proactively addressing climate change and 
risks to mission due to climate change, and in compliance with E.O. 14008, 
NASA prepared a Climate Action Plan to provide NASA’s vision for adapting to 
climate change effects on its mission, facilities, infrastructure, natural lands, and 
other assets, now and in the future. NASA also has an ongoing effort, the Climate 
Adaptation Science Investigators (CASI) working group, that provides updated 
climate science and information for use in planning and risk analysis at NASA 
centers. NASA has also tracked agency GHG emissions since 2008 and has seen 
a consistent downward trend in emissions. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  18

ESA/Alexander GersPriorities and Needs

Priority 2
INFORM

Earth observation 
satellite Landsat 9

While NASA has incorporated climate considerations into agency planning and 
reduced agency emissions over time, continued work is needed to address 
continued climate change. Thus, there is a need to ensure the sustainability of 
its missions, centers, and facilities. There is also a need to periodically review 
existing efforts to integrate climate adaptation risks and mitigation planning into 
NASA risk management and budget development processes to ensure they 
reflect the latest knowledge on climate change. There is also a need to identify 
and implement specific actions to further reduce the agency’s carbon footprint, 
in line with E.O. 14057.

NASA facilities are managed by OSI. However, the information and tools 
developed by ESD can be used to support this analysis. Existing projects, like 
CASI, can help facilitate the exchange of scientific and infrastructure information to 
improve the resilience of NASA centers. 

2.1: Increase discoverability, accessibility, and usability of climate 
and Earth science information through newly developing information 
delivery technologies.
Through the NASA Distributed Active Archive Centers (DAACs), the NASA Earth 
Science Data Systems Program, and the NASA Applied Sciences Program, 
NASA has demonstrated international leadership in providing free public access 
to climate and Earth science information. NASA has continued to innovate in 
the use of open data services and cloud-based data archives and processing 
systems. NASA has made important progress in using tools to catalogue 

and organize Earth science datasets to improve 
discoverability and accessibility for the Earth 
science community. 

While NASA’s climate and Earth science information is 
publicly available, there are still barriers to its use and 
a need to increase discoverability, accessibility, and 
usability of this information. Recent advances in cloud 
computing, powerful browser-based visualization 
tools, and the growing adoption of a common open 

data service specification (OpenAPI) provide opportunities to increase broad 
access to NASA climate and Earth science information, following Findability, 
Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reuse (FAIR) data access principles. However, 
further work is needed to organize this information into coherent, actionable 
information products for specific climate change planning and response activities 
for diverse user and stakeholder communities. In addition, these efforts, in 
coordination with other federal agencies, need to consider the importance of 
ensuring the long-term continuity and reliability of information products and data 
services that support climate change planning and response. 

A further challenge is that many potential users do not have access to sufficient 
computing resources to process and use the large volumes of data generated by 
NASA missions. NASA has been moving data into the cloud to facilitate its use by 
a broad user community and has identified climate data accessibility as a priority 
in its recent Equity Action Plan, with plans to move more data into the cloud 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  19

NASAPriorities and Needs

(see also 2.3). There is a need to manage climate and Earth science datasets 
using both cloud-based and dedicated compute infrastructure. As more users 
incorporate NASA information into their planning and response efforts, there is a 
need to ensure users understand how to use the information provided by NASA, 
including considerations related to data accuracy and uncertainty. Additional 
trainings, enhanced metadata, and continued development of measures and 
standards for data accuracy and uncertainty could help address challenges with 
data accessibility and usability. 

2.2: Support communities and stakeholders in preparing for and 
responding to climate change by enhancing information, tools, 
applications, and resources that draw on NASA observations, models, and 
people to improve societal resilience. 
NASA has supported the use of climate insights from Earth science to 
benefit the economy, health, quality of life, and environment. These activities 
include project and program-level collaborations with local, state, and tribal 
governmental and non-governmental organizations to develop and demonstrate 
the use of Earth observation data for climate-related decision making. NASA 
also supports efforts to enhance the capacity of these organizations to use 
Earth observation data. Internationally, NASA makes important contributions 
to national climate change information repositories and visualization tools 
developed for the public. Activities such as the NASA-U.S. Agency for 
International Development (USAID) SERVIR program have also established a 
pathway for increasing use of NASA data by international partners to improve 
capacity to respond to natural disasters and manage natural resources in the 
face of climate change. Various NASA activities, such as the NASA Sea Level 
Projection Tool, the NASA FIRMS, and OpenET, demonstrate how NASA data 
can be integrated into both long-term climate change planning and short-term 
response to the emerging impacts of climate change, such as intensifying 
wildfire events, increasing drought severity and duration, and declines in 
streamflow. NASA capabilities such as the NASA Advanced Supercomputing 
Division and NASA Earth Exchange, based at Ames Research Center, and the 

Participants of NASA’s 
Student Airborne 
Science Activation 
inaugural class and 
some of their mentors 
pose in front of NASA’s 
P-3 aircraft, which they 
used to collect Earth 
science data needed for 
their research studies.

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  20

NASAPriorities and Needs

TEMPO, a 
UV-visible 
spectrometer 
instrument will 
be the first ever 
space-based 
instrument to 
monitor air 
pollutants hourly 
across the 
North American 
continent during 
daytime

NASA Global Change Data Center, based at Goddard Space 
Flight Center, have also made important contributions to the 
production and distribution of key climate change datasets 
that are broadly used in climate response planning.

Building upon these examples of success, there are 
important opportunities to broaden both the types of NASA 
observational and modeled datasets that can be used to 
prepare for and respond to climate change, as well as the 
diversity of ways that people and communities can access 
and use this information. Nearly all upcoming Earth observing 
satellite missions enable key opportunities to provide new 
information to support climate response planning. The 2018 

National Academies’ Decadal Survey for Earth Science and Applications from 
Space highlights the importance of utilizing data from these satellite missions to 
both support advances in scientific understanding and to improve our collective 
ability to respond to climate change. There is a need to continue to enhance 
information, tools, applications, and resources that support efforts by communities 
and stakeholders in preparing for and responding to climate change. Such efforts 
could include providing climate change data and information, as well as efforts 
to engage communities in co-developing resources. The newly announced Earth 
Information Center provides an opportunity to do both.

2.3: Address climate change impacts in underserved and vulnerable 
communities by promoting equity in the collection and use of climate and 
Earth science information.
NASA’s climate data is used by many researchers and stakeholders. However, 
for historical and cultural reasons, many communities and organizations have 
not had equitable and sufficient resources to fully leverage NASA capabilities. 
In addition, using NASA data and tools can require large computing resources 
and significant technical knowledge, which can present challenges for many 
people and communities. NASA’s existing efforts on transforming to open 
science aim to ensure tools and resources are open and accessible. In addition, 
NASA’s Equity Action Plan includes an effort to move some Earth science data 
to the cloud and provide trainings in Spanish language to improve equity and 
accessibility of Earth science information.

While NASA has initiated efforts to advance equity and accessibility of climate 
and Earth science information, there are still barriers to its use. There is a need 
to promote equity and environmental justice in the collection and use of climate 
information. Such efforts could include:

• Developing information, resources, and tools to help under-resourced 

organizations evaluate their climate risks (see also 2.2); 

• Increasing the accessibility of climate information provided (see also 2.1); and

• Partnering with organizations working in communities most impacted by 
climate change and identify ways in which NASA can contribute towards 
environmental and climate justice initiatives (see also 4.2).

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  21

NASAPriorities and Needs

Priority 3
INSPIRE

3.1: Help humanity understand and prepare for climate change by 
improving stakeholder and public awareness of and access to NASA 
climate discoveries, information, and technology.
NASA has a broad portfolio of climate research and climate-related technology 
development. NASA’s brand provides a powerful pull for other agencies to partner 
with NASA on these projects to capture the imagination of the public and seek their 
involvement. Yet, many are not aware of or have incomplete knowledge of NASA’s 
climate activities. NASA’s Global Climate Change website, climate.nasa.gov, is the 
top-rated website in the world for users searching for “climate change.” However, 
thus far, it has focused predominantly on NASA’s Earth science research. Information 
on climate-related technology development at NASA is sprinkled throughout other 
NASA websites and does not have a consolidated home online. 

While many are aware of a few aspects of NASA’s climate portfolio, few are 
aware of the breadth of the Earth and climate-related research and technology 
development at NASA. To help researchers and the public understand and 
address climate change, there is a need to improve stakeholder and public 
awareness of the full extent of the agency’s climate portfolio. Communication 
products should be designed to engage a broad audience through different media 
and platforms (e.g., print, social media, podcasts, videos, etc.), with messages 
designed to showcase NASA’s full climate portfolio. In addition, developing a 
single website for all of NASA’s climate-related activities, encompassing the 
agency’s entire climate portfolio, could help facilitate these efforts. 

While the Office of Communications leads all communications efforts for 
NASA, much of the work is accomplished through mission directorate and 
center communication strategies and teams. There is opportunity to improve 
coordination among these organizations to ensure a consistent and impactful 
voice and messaging strategy. 

3.2: Enhance and support climate literacy of the NASA workforce and 
those who work with NASA.
Climate variability and climate change impact all NASA centers and therefore 
NASA’s ability to fulfill its mission. Recent Executive Orders related to climate 
(e.g., E.O. 14008 and E.O. 14057) provide direction to NASA with respect to the 
agency’s climate actions. NASA’s climate portfolio will involve a broad swath of 
the agency’s workforce beyond traditional climate scientists, including those in 
mission support organizations, technical mission directorates, and centers. Many 
of those involved in these activities have limited training in or awareness of climate 
change, or of the extent of the agency’s climate activities.

There is a need to enhance and support climate literacy within the agency’s 
workforce. Such climate literacy efforts would provide resources for NASA 
employees to learn and understand climate change and how it impacts NASA’s 
mission, the vulnerability of NASA centers and facilities, and what NASA is doing 
in response to climate change. A variety of means could be used to enhance and 
support climate literacy, including webinars, trainings, and surveys.

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  22

Priorities and Needs

NASA’s SpaceX 
Crew-2 NASA 
astronaut Megan 
McArthur speaks 
to students 
during a visit 
to Arlington 
Science Focus 
Elementary 
School, Friday, 
June 10, 2022, 
in Arlington, 
Virginia.

There are several existing efforts within NASA to provide education and training 
materials related to climate, including resources for K-12 students and educators 
(e.g., the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) 
program), training material on NASA’s Earth Science data and applications 
(e.g., the Applied Remote SEnsing Training Program, or ARSET), and projects 
connecting climate scientists to mission support organizations who need climate 
information (e.g., CASI). In addition, climate literacy efforts are also being pursued 
by other federal agencies as part of their climate action plans. NASA’s climate 
literacy efforts could bring together information and insights from ESD, OSTEM, 
and other federal agencies (where appropriate). 

3.3: Inspire and educate the next generation of climate  
researchers and citizens. 
NASA has a wide variety of activities designed to inspire and educate researchers 
and the public, including public prize competitions, challenges, crowdsourcing, 
and citizen science activities, many of which relate to climate. These activities are 
designed for all ages, and include resources for K-12 students and educators, 
research opportunities for high school, undergraduate, and graduate students, 
and science education activities for the public. 

While existing efforts have had a broad reach, there remains a need to continue 
to inspire and educate the next generation of climate researchers and citizens, 
including across all demographic and socioeconomic groups. These efforts could 
include expanding STEM and public engagement products, and opportunities to 
learn about climate and NASA’s portfolio; adding a climate focus to more agency-
supported STEM programs; creating additional climate-related materials to be 
used by teachers/educators; and integrating STEM activities into major climate 
science and technology agency initiatives. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  23

NASA/Aubrey GemignaniPriorities and Needs

Priority 4
PARTNER

GRACE Follow-
On (GRACE-
FO) measures 
Earth’s surface 
mass and water 
changes

There are many different offices at NASA engaged in educating and inspiring the 
public with respect to climate, including OSTEM, ESD, SMD, STMD, and the 
Office of Communications.

4.1: Facilitate coordination and partnerships with other federal agencies, 
international entities, and state, local, and tribal governments to deliver 
actionable climate information to stakeholders, and ensure the broadest 
applicability of NASA climate information and technologies.
NASA is one of many federal agencies conducting climate-related research. NASA 
currently participates in a broad range of federal interagency working groups (e.g., 
USGCRP). These groups span a broad range of activities, including observations, 
climate research, and meteorological services, as well as specific topics, including 
the ocean, the Arctic, and resilience. NASA also works with other federal agencies 
in bilateral and multilateral efforts, including partnerships on satellite missions (e.g., 
with USGS for Landsat) and projects (e.g., with USAID on SERVIR).

NASA’s observations and research are global in scope. NASA works 
with international partners, including participating in international working 
groups (e.g., the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites and the 
Group on Earth Observations), partnering on satellite missions (e.g., 
with DLR/GFZ on GRACE/GRACE-FO), and co-developing information 
dissemination portals (e.g., with JAXA and ESA on the Earth Observing 
Dashboard). NASA scientists also contribute to a variety of national and 
international assessments, including the IPCC and the National Climate 
Assessment. NASA also works with state, local, and tribal governments 
in understanding and responding to climate change. 

While there are many existing collaboration and coordination efforts, 
strategic sustained and enhanced collaboration is needed to ensure 
the broadest applicability and use of NASA climate information and 

technologies. NASA’s climate research is complementary to the efforts at other 
agencies. Furthermore, each agency has its own set of stakeholders and 
user groups. Continued and enhanced coordination and collaboration with 
other agencies is needed to meet user needs, ensure a broader reach of all 
U.S. Government climate information, and provide sustained and innovative 
observations and information. Similarly, continued collaboration with international 
partners is needed to provide sustained and innovative observations and 
information. Since most NASA missions are not planned with successors, 
balancing the extended operations of NASA missions, planning for new missions 
that continue the records of current observables, and coordination with other 
federal agencies and international partners, are all needed to address continuity 
of data and information products. Finally, as climate changes, the needs of users 
and researchers for climate information and technology will also change. Such 
changes may necessitate evolving contributions to existing interagency and 
international efforts, or engagement with additional interagency and international 
activities to complement existing efforts.

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  24

NASAPriorities and Needs

NASA’s X-57 is 
an all-electric 
experimental 
aircraft designed 
to demonstrate 
multiple 
leading-edge 
technologies.

4.2: Expand ongoing successful partnerships and determine the 
appropriate role for NASA in collaborating with the growing number of 
commercial entities and not-for-profits conducting climate observations, 
research, and applications.
There are an increasing number of commercial and not-for-profit entities 
engaging in Earth observations, climate research, and climate-related technology 
development. NASA has been introducing commercial small satellite capability 
into its programs through the purchase of data via the Commercial Smallsat 
Data Acquisition program. This program provides access to commercial satellite 
data for scientific use by NASA-funded researchers (and other federal partners in 
some instances). NASA also has collaborations with non-profits and commercial 
entities for climate research, including projects, partnerships, consortia, and 
Space Act agreements. For example, NASA Harvest is a consortium of actors, 
including public, private, and universities, focused on using satellite information 
for agricultural applications. For space technology and aviation, NASA is heavily 

invested in cost-sharing partnerships and collaborative 
research with U.S. industry to research and 
demonstrate technology advancements. For example, 
NASA worked with Electric Power Systems to design 
and develop the batteries for the X-57 experimental 
electric flight plane. Additionally, NASA’s University 
Leadership Initiative supports universities pioneering 
next-generation technologies for a net-zero carbon 
emissions aviation future.

While NASA has several successful engagements with commercial and not-for-
profit entities, there continue to be new entities and new products emerging. 
There is a need to expand ongoing successful partnerships and the community 
NASA engages with on climate. There is also a need to identify new opportunities 
for collaboration and consider when and how NASA engages with new entities. 

The opportunities for partnership span many mission directorates and centers. 
For example, SMD runs the Commercial Smallsat Data Acquisition program and 
engages in research and application partnerships. ARMD works closely with 
industry on aviation research and technology demonstrations. STMD works 
closely with industry and academia on space technology research and technology 
demonstrations and the commercialization of those inventions through NASA’s 
technology transfer program. To enhance the engagement with these commercial 
and not-for-profit entities, NASA could facilitate closer coordination among mission 
directorates (including mission support) and centers to explore these opportunities.

4.3: Increase coordination and collaboration among NASA centers and 
mission directorates with respect to climate research and climate-related 
technology development.
NASA’s climate research and climate-related technology development spans the 
agency, with involvement from all mission directorates and centers. While there 
are many examples of cross-directorate and/or cross-center collaboration efforts 
on climate, the CSWG has also identified a need for greater integration across 
the agency’s climate portfolio. Climate change itself involves almost every aspect 
of the atmosphere-ocean-land-cryosphere system, and human impacts upon it 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  25

NASAPriorities and Needs

involve almost every aspect of global society (power generation, transportation, 
agriculture, industry, urban design, etc.). Therefore, research into monitoring and 
understanding that change, developing necessary technologies, and responding to 
climate change, will all be more impactful through greater integration and enhanced 
collaboration across the agency. To facilitate that integration and collaboration, 
NASA could consider organizing and facilitating periodic focused climate summits to 
share information about NASA’s climate portfolio with others in the agency, identify 
opportunities for potential future collaborative activities, and identify opportunities for 
more targeted discussions on intra-agency collaborations on climate. 

Since climate research and climate-related technology development are spread 
throughout the agency, there are many opportunities for collaborations between the 
mission directorates and centers. NASA could consider maintaining a small working 
group under the Office of the Chief Scientist and Senior Climate Advisor, bringing 
together representatives from all mission directorates and centers to discuss, inform, 
and advise on potential climate-related initiatives across the agency.

Fires and 
Smoke Engulf 
Southeastern 
Australia
January 4, 2020

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  26

NASANational Aeronautics and 
Space Administration

Last  
Word

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  27

NASALast 
Word

Advancing
NASA’s
Climate
Strategy

NASA’s CSWG has sought to better understand 
the agency’s current climate portfolio, identify 
existing gaps, make connections, and present 
recommendations for consideration to enable 
the agency to become more effective in its 
approach to tackling the climate crisis. The 
result, “Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy,” 
outlines priorities and needs that will enable the 
continuation and expansion of a legacy of robust 
contributions to understanding the Earth, its 
changing climate, and the impacts to our planet 
and those who live on it. 

Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  28

 
 
 
Advancing NASA’s Climate Strategy  |  29

NASANational Aeronautics and Space Administration

Mary W. Jackson NASA Headquarters
300 E Street SW (Hidden Figures Way) 
Washington, DC 20546
https://www.nasa.gov/centers/hq

www.nasa.gov

NP-2023-03-3112-HQ

