  United Nations 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Distr.: General 
28 October 2025 

English only 

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement 
Seventh session 
Belém, 10–21 November 2025 

  Nationally determined contributions under the Paris 

Agreement 

Synthesis report by the secretariat 

Summary 

This  report  synthesizes  information  from  the  64  new  nationally  determined 
contributions  communicated  by  64  Parties  to  the  Paris  Agreement  and  recorded  in  the 
registry of nationally determined contributions between 1 January 2024 and 30 September 
2025. 

GE.25-17206  (E) 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Contents 

  Abbreviations and acronyms ............................................................................................................  

I.  Executive summary ..........................................................................................................................  

II. 

Introduction ......................................................................................................................................  

  A.  Mandate and background .........................................................................................................  

  B.  Scope and approach .................................................................................................................  

III.  Overview of nationally determined contributions ............................................................................  

IV.  Cross-cutting elements, including planning and implementation processes, in nationally determined 

contributions .....................................................................................................................................  

  A.  Policy frameworks, climate laws and governance mechanisms ..............................................  

  B.  Gender .....................................................................................................................................  

  C.  Children and youth ..................................................................................................................  

  D. 

Indigenous Peoples and local communities .............................................................................  

  E.  Action for Climate Empowerment ...........................................................................................  

F.  Broad non-Party stakeholder engagement and voluntary efforts to support climate action .....  

  G. 

International cooperation .........................................................................................................  

  H.  How the outcomes of the first global stocktake are informing nationally determined  

contributions ............................................................................................................................  

I. 

Just transition ...........................................................................................................................  

J.  Voluntary cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement...............................................  

  K.  Forests ......................................................................................................................................  

  L.  The Ocean ................................................................................................................................  

V.  Mitigation co-benefits resulting from adaptation action and/or economic diversification plans ......  

VI.  Adaptation ........................................................................................................................................  

VII.  Mitigation  .........................................................................................................................................  

  A.  Targets .....................................................................................................................................  

  B.  Domestic mitigation measures .................................................................................................  

VIII.  Means of implementation .................................................................................................................  

IX.  Contribution towards achieving the objective of the Convention as set out in its Article 2, and  

towards Article 2, paragraph 1(a), and Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement ...................  

Page 

3 

4 

9 

9 

10 

10 

11 

12 

14 

15 

15 

16 

17 

19 

21 

23 

24 

25 

28 

29 

30 

36 

36 

41 

47 

52 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations and acronyms 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

2006 IPCC Guidelines 
ACE 
AFOLU 
AR 
BTR 
CCUS 
CH4 
CMA 

CO2 
CO2 eq 
COP 
ETF 
GHG 
GST 
GWP-100* 
HFC 
IEA 
INDC 
IPCC 
IPPU 
LT-LEDS 
LULUCF 
MRV 
N2O 
NAP 
NDC 
NF3 
PFC 
REDD+ 

SDG 
SF6 
SLCP* 
UNEP 

2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories 
Action for Climate Empowerment 
agriculture, forestry and other land use 
Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
biennial transparency report 
carbon dioxide capture, use and storage 
methane 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement 
carbon dioxide 
carbon dioxide equivalent 
Conference of the Parties 
enhanced transparency framework under the Paris Agreement 
greenhouse gas 
global stocktake 
global warming potential values over a 100-year time-horizon 
hydrofluorocarbon 
International Energy Agency 
intended nationally determined contribution 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
industrial processes and product use 
long-term low-emission development strategy(ies) 
land use, land-use change and forestry 
measurement, reporting and verification 
nitrous oxide 
national adaptation plan 
nationally determined contribution 
nitrogen trifluoride 
perfluorocarbon 
reducing emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from 
forest degradation; conservation of forest carbon stocks; sustainable 
management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks 
(decision 1/CP.16, para. 70) 
Sustainable Development Goal 
sulfur hexafluoride 
short-lived climate pollutant 
United Nations Environment Programme 

*   Used exclusively in figures. 

3 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

I.  Executive summary 

1. 
Ten  years  on  from  the  adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement,  this  2025  NDC  synthesis 
report provides new indications of real and increasing progress on action to address climate 
change through national efforts underpinned by global cooperation. In their NDCs, Parties 
are setting out new national climate targets, and plans to achieve them, that differ in pace and 
scale  to  any  that  have  come  before.  According  to  their  NDCs,  Parties  are  bending  their 
combined  emission  curve  further  downward,  but  still  not  quickly  enough.  The  whole-of-
economy, whole-of-society approaches evident in NDCs point to strong climate action as an 
increasingly core pillar of ensuring economic stability and growth, jobs, health, and energy 
security and affordability, among many other policy imperatives, in countries. However, it 
remains clear that major acceleration is still needed in terms of delivering faster and deeper 
emission  reductions  and  ensuring  that  the  vast  benefits  of  strong  climate  action  reach  all 
countries and peoples. This report provides valuable new insights, albeit limited in scope, on 
the basis of the 64 new NDCs submitted by 64 Parties to the Paris Agreement and recorded 
in the NDC registry between 1 January 2024 and 30 September 2025, covering about 30 per 
cent of total global emissions in 2019. It is not possible to draw wide-ranging global-level 
conclusions or inferences from this limited data set. Nevertheless, the report highlights many 
key  lessons,  about  progress  being  made  and  major  challenges  ahead,  emerging  from  the 
NDCs synthesized: 

(a) 

The  new  NDCs  show  a  progression  in  terms  of  quality,  credibility  and 
economic  coverage,  with  89  per  cent  of  Parties  communicating  economy-wide  targets 
(compared with 81 per cent in their previous NDCs); 

(b) 

The new NDCs include responses to the outcomes of the first GST, with 88 
per cent of Parties indicating that their NDCs were informed by the outcomes of the GST and 
80 per cent specifying how; 

(c) 

The emissions trajectories set out in the new NDCs are broadly consistent with 
a linear trajectory from the Parties’ 2030 targets to their long-term net zero targets, showing 
that Parties are laying out clear stepping-stones towards net zero, although acceleration of 
action is still needed; 

(d) 

Collectively,  the  new  NDCs  show  a  reduction  in  projected  emissions  of  17 

(11–24) per cent below the 2019 level; 

(e) 

All NDCs go beyond mitigation to include elements, inter alia, on adaptation, 
finance, technology transfer, capacity-building and addressing loss and damage, reflecting 
the comprehensive scope of the Paris Agreement; 

(f) 

Adaptation and resilience are  featuring more prominently in NDCs, with 73 

per cent of the new NDCs including an adaptation component; 

(g) 

Implementation  of  the  new  NDCs  necessitates  strong,  ongoing  international 
cooperation,  and  new  and  innovative  approaches  to  unlock  finance  and  support  for 
developing country Parties at scale. 

2.  With regard to  GHG emission reductions, the  total GHG emission  level resulting 
from the implementation of Parties’ new NDCs is projected to be around 13.0 (12.0–13.9)1 
Gt  CO2  eq  in  2035,  which  is  6  per  cent below  the  projected  2030  level  reported  in  those 
Parties’ previous NDCs and 17 (11–24) per cent below the 2019 level. Full implementation 
of  all  new  NDCs,  including  all  conditional  elements,  is  estimated  to bring  the  total  GHG 
emission level of the relevant group of Parties down to 12.3 (12.0–12.7) Gt CO2 eq by 2035, 
which would be 19–24 per cent below the 2019 level. Implementation of their new NDCs 
will result in a peaking of GHG emissions for the group of Parties before 2030, with strong 
emission reductions thereafter until 2035. Most of the new NDCs are linked to the Parties’ 
long-term decarbonization targets and development pathways, including the net zero targets 

1    A triplet of emission levels indicates the best-estimate and the min-max projection range arising from 
ranges in NDC targets and uncertainties in the quantification. If not otherwise stated, the range spans 
both high and low quantifications of conditional and unconditional targets. 

4 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

communicated  in  the  NDCs  or  LT-LEDS,  which  involve  reaching  net  zero  emissions  by 
between  2040  and  2060,  with  the  majority  for  2050.  The  aggregate  emission  level  of  the 
Parties  projected  for  2035  is  approximately  consistent  with  a  linear  trajectory  from  the 
estimated 2030 emission level to their aggregate targeted net zero emission level. 

3. 
Nearly all Parties (98 per cent) communicated domestic mitigation measures in their 
new NDCs, with 80 per cent reporting measures for at least one of the six low-cost mitigation 
options with the highest mitigation potential (more than 2 Gt CO2 eq/year) for up to 2035. 
Among such options, afforestation and reforestation, solar energy and reducing deforestation 
are identified as the options with the greater need for support. Quantitative targets relevant 
to at least one of the global efforts or mitigation options covered in recent CMA decisions 
were  reported  by  75  per  cent  of  Parties,  of  which  47  per  cent  made  direct  references  to 
specific efforts or options. In addition to the information in  the  NDCs, some Parties  have 
announced  domestic  pledges  and  projects  relevant  to  the  above-mentioned  global  efforts, 
including in relation to tripling global renewable energy capacity by 2030, enhancing low-
carbon hydrogen production and expanding CCUS capacity. The combined effects of these 
pledges and projects are projected to significantly exceed the aggregated targets based on the 
NDCs  for  the  same  global  efforts,  indicating  that  submitted  NDCs  do  not  cover  all 
domestically announced pledges and projects. Some Parties may nationally determine that 
progress in these areas, along with other contributing factors such as enhanced international 
cooperation and support, contributes to potential for accelerated implementation and more 
ambition. 

4. 
Parties widely recognized and positively responded to the outcomes of the first 
GST2 in their NDCs. A total of 88 per cent of Parties indicated that their new NDCs were 
informed by the findings of and calls arising from the first GST, with 80 per cent of Parties 
providing information supporting that claim. In terms of considering the GST outcomes in 
their NDCs, Parties referenced enhanced ambition of mitigation (77 per cent), adaptation (38 
per cent), means of implementation (33 per cent), loss and damage (14 per cent), response 
measures (13 per cent) and international cooperation (17 per cent), as well as cross-cutting 
elements such as just transition, stakeholder engagement and gender-responsiveness. Some 
Parties indicated how the targets, commitments and actions in their NDCs will contribute to 
global  efforts  in  relation  to  tripling  renewable  energy  capacity  globally  and  doubling  the 
global average annual rate of energy efficiency improvement by 2030; transitioning away 
from  fossil  fuels  in  energy  systems;  conserving,  protecting  and  restoring  nature  and 
ecosystems;  promoting  sustainable  lifestyles  and  sustainable  patterns  of  consumption  and 
production; and enhancing adaptation efforts towards achieving the global goal on adaptation. 

5. 
An  increasing  trend  in  NDCs  mentioning  mitigation  co-benefits  resulting  from 
adaptation action and/or economic diversification plans can be observed. NDCs are also 
increasingly  mentioning  plans  to  address  impacts  arising  from  mitigation  actions  by 
embedding consideration of just transition in the NDCs, thus indicating growing recognition 
of the importance of just transition. 

6. 
 A total of 70 per cent of  Parties considered just transition in preparing their new 
NDCs and the majority of those Parties plan to integrate consideration of just transition into 
NDC  implementation.  It  is  also  evident  that  Parties  considered  just  transition  across  all 
aspects of their NDCs, including mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation, and 
for a variety of sectors and stakeholders, which points to a whole-of-economy and -society 
approach to considering just transition. Some Parties contextualized just transition as helping 
to  ensure  that  the  shift  to  low-carbon,  climate-resilient  economies  does  not  exacerbate 
existing or create new inequalities in societies, thus enabling climate action that is socially 
inclusive and economically empowering. Plans to monitor or track just transition as part of 
NDC implementation were explicitly indicated by 8 per cent of Parties. 

7. 
The  increase  in  Parties  indicating  their  intention  to  participate  in  voluntary 
cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement to contribute to reaching their climate 
targets continued in the new NDCs. 89 per cent of Parties indicated that they plan to or may 
use at least one of the scopes of voluntary cooperation under Article 6, in comparison with 
64 per cent in the previous NDCs; with 17 per cent of Parties mentioning the general use of 

2  See decision 1/CMA.5.  

5 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

voluntary  cooperation  under  Article  6,  72  per  cent  referring  to  the  use  of  internationally 
transferred  mitigation  outcomes  under  Article  6,  paragraphs  2  and  4,  and  20  per  cent 
expressing interest in non-market approaches under Article 6, paragraph 8. Following the 
completion of the negotiations on the implementation of Article 6 at COP 29, more Parties 
are  beginning  to  define  their  approach  to  voluntary  cooperation  and  establish  the  legal, 
regulatory and institutional frameworks needed to implement and benefit from Article 6. 

8. 
Acknowledging  the  fundamental  role  of  forests  in  keeping  1.5  °C  within  reach, 
Parties have integrated forest measures into economy-wide mitigation targets and mentioned 
forest-specific  contributions  and  indicators  in  their  new  NDCs.  Parties  highlighted 
international collaboration and REDD+ results-based payments as key to mitigation in the 
forest sector, while noting synergies with achieving adaptation and biodiversity objectives. 
Developing country Parties referenced their national REDD+ strategies and safeguards, and 
ongoing implementation of REDD+ as central to their climate responses. More Parties than 
previously  included  in  their  NDCs  a  broader  range  of  forest  actions,  covering  reducing 
deforestation  and  forest  degradation,  afforestation  and  reforestation,  sustainable  forest 
management, policy frameworks and risk management measures addressing wildfire, pests 
and  diseases,  often  with  indicative  costings  and  financing  needs,  and  thus  constituting 
coherent climate action packages. Persistent funding gaps remain, with Parties stressing that 
predictable domestic and international finance, including REDD+ results-based payments, is 
essential for turning ambition into durable outcomes, supported by inclusive governance and 
national systems. 

9. 
Parties reported a significant increase in ocean-based climate action compared with 
the previous NDCs, with 78 per cent of Parties including in the new NDCs at least one explicit 
reference to the ocean – an increase of 39 per cent. Of the 48 per cent of Parties that reported 
finance-related  needs  for  ocean-based  action,  46  per  cent  have  made  conditional 
commitments, which were mostly identified by small island developing States to implement 
ocean-related climate measures. Ocean-based adaptation remains prominent, with measures 
relating to coastal resilience-building through integrated coastal zone management, marine 
spatial planning, strengthening the resilience of coastal and marine tourism and responding 
to sea level rise, conservation and restoration of blue carbon ecosystems through nature-based 
solutions and marine protected areas, and fisheries and aquaculture. Though fewer in number, 
reported ocean-based mitigation measures show increasing innovation and sectoral diversity, 
spanning renewable energy deployment, blue carbon sequestration, fisheries and aquaculture, 
and decarbonization of maritime transport. 

10.  A total of 73 per cent of Parties included an adaptation component in their new NDCs, 
focusing  on  the  adaptation  priority  areas  of  food  security  and  nutrition,  water  resources, 
health,  terrestrial  ecosystems,  key  economic  sectors,  disaster  risk management,  urban  and 
rural areas, ocean ecosystems, coastal and low-lying regions, poverty and livelihoods, and 
education.  Parties  demonstrated  progress  across  several  areas  of  adaptation,  including 
strengthening adaptation-relevant research, data and monitoring to support evidence-based 
action; developing and implementing adaptation-related policy frameworks; formulating and 
advancing NAPs; aligning adaptation strategies with the United Arab Emirates Framework 
for  Global  Climate  Resilience;  defining  time-bound  adaptation  targets  and  indicators  for 
tracking progress; and identifying synergies between adaptation and mitigation efforts, and 
linkages between adaptation action and efforts towards achieving the SDGs. A total of 94 per 
cent of Parties with an adaptation component in their new NDCs, compared with 68 per cent 
in their previous NDCs, referred to loss and damage, outlining observed and projected loss 
and damage in various key sectors and describing planned or implemented measures to avert, 
minimize or address loss and damage. 

11. 
Parties  reaffirmed  in  their  new  NDCs  their  strong  commitment  to  climate 
multilateralism under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, recognizing  international 
cooperation  as  indispensable  for  strengthening  climate  action  and  achieving  the  Paris 
Agreement’s  goals  to  avert  the  worst  human  and  economic  impacts  of  global  warming. 
International cooperation was emphasized as critical for mobilizing resources and bridging 
the gap between NDC ambition and implementation by 97 per cent of Parties. In addition to 
fulfilling  commitments  under  the  Convention  and  the  Paris  Agreement,  such  as  NDCs, 
Parties  described  their  engagement  with  international  partners  to  promote  effective  and 

6 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

inclusive climate action through voluntary cooperation initiatives, regional collaboration and 
sectoral activities such as energy transition. 

12. 
Information on climate finance was included in their new NDCs by 75 per cent of 
Parties,  most  often  in  terms  of  support  needed  for  NDC  implementation,  with  fewer 
referencing their role as finance providers. Costed needs were presented by 21 per cent more 
Parties  in  their  new  NDCs  than  previously,  particularly  for  adaptation,  reflecting  their 
increased ambition, broader sectoral coverage and efforts to integrate climate finance into 
national budgeting and policy frameworks. Nearly 63 per cent of Parties referenced efforts 
to develop climate financing strategies or investment plans to support NDC implementation. 
Parties  reporting  financial  needs  provided  cost  estimates  ranging  from  aggregate  totals  to 
sector-specific breakdowns, amounting to USD 1,970.8–1,975.0 billion overall. Mitigation 
finance needs, estimated at USD 1,339 billion, are concentrated in the energy, AFOLU, IPPU 
and waste sectors; while adaptation finance needs, estimated at USD 560.5–564.6 billion, are 
focused  in  agriculture,  water,  infrastructure,  health,  biodiversity  and  disaster  risk 
management sectors. A total of 84 per cent of the Parties that reported costed needs identified 
a mix of international and domestic sources of finance needed, including public and private 
sources.  Parties  noted  that  international  support  is  sought  through  bilateral  finance, 
multilateral  climate  funds,  multilateral  development  banks  and  private  sector  investment. 
Parties also reported that they are exploring use of sovereign instruments such as green bonds 
and social and sustainability bond instruments as well as innovative finance such as maritime 
levies, de-risking instruments like credit guarantees, and green credit lines. 

13.  With regard to technology development and transfer and innovation, 97 per cent 
of Parties provided information, at varying levels of detail, on technology priorities and/or 
needs  in  their  new  NDCs,  45  per  cent  of  which  include  both  qualitative  and  quantitative 
aspects. Around 75 per cent mentioned specific information on technology-related measures, 
often from a sectoral perspective, while others mentioned technology more generally. A total 
of 92 per cent of Parties outlined technology priorities and/or needs in support of mitigation 
and 72 per cent in support of adaptation. The predominant share of these needs and priorities 
for mitigation are related to the energy, transport and AFOLU sectors, which were cited by a 
majority of Parties (more than 50 per cent). For adaptation, in addition to agrifood systems 
and the water sector, which were among the most frequently cited priorities in previous NDCs, 
a  majority  of  Parties  (more  than  50  per  cent)  referred  to  technology  measures  related  to 
climate  monitoring  and  observations  in  their  new  NDCs,  often  combined  with  geospatial 
tools and digital solutions, including use of artificial intelligence. The share of Parties (73 per 
cent) that referred to measures related to technology innovation, research and demonstration 
for achieving their climate targets has more than doubled since their previous NDCs. 

institutional  strengthening  are 

14.  Capacity-building  and 
increasingly  being 
recognized  as  important  for  NDC  implementation.  Of  the  84  per  cent  of  Parties  that 
referenced  capacity-building  in  their  new  NDCs,  66  per  cent  indicated  that  NDC 
implementation  is  contingent  upon  receiving  capacity-building  support.  Needs  were 
identified  across  adaptation,  mitigation  and  cross-cutting  areas,  including  transparency, 
technology  deployment  and  access  to  climate  finance.  A  total  of  25  per  cent  of  Parties 
highlighted capacity needs related to addressing loss and damage and accessing related funds, 
which  were  not  reflected  in  their  previous  NDCs.  Parties  referred  to  institutional 
arrangements and stakeholder engagement as part of their capacity-building efforts. 

15.  A total of 97 per cent of Parties provided information in their new NDCs on the legal 
and  policy  frameworks  that  facilitate  their  NDC  implementation.  The  nature  of  such 
frameworks  varies  across  Parties  and  includes  acts,  laws  and  decrees  as  well  as  policies, 
strategies and plans.  The adoption of comprehensive climate change acts, laws or decrees 
that establish the legal framework for NDC implementation was pointed to by 41 per cent of 
Parties. On the policy side, 39 per cent of Parties referred to their national climate change 
policies and 41 per cent to their national climate change strategies and plans as important 
instruments for supporting NDC implementation. Further, a total of 94 per cent of Parties 
reported  on  legal  and  policy  instruments  that  contribute  to  NDC  implementation  in  key 
sectors such as energy, environment, water, waste,  agriculture and food security, forestry, 
disaster risk reduction and management, health, urban and spatial planning,  transport, and 
buildings, construction and infrastructure. Among these, the environment sector stands out, 

7 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

with  77  per  cent  of  Parties  providing  information  on  environmental  legal  and  policy 
instruments containing climate-related components. Climate change considerations have also 
been  incorporated  within  sustainable  development  frameworks:  47  per  cent  of  Parties 
highlighted sustainable development legislation, agendas, strategies and plans as instruments 
that underpin the legal and policy frameworks that facilitate NDC implementation. 

16. 
The new NDCs reflect a deepening and more structured engagement of non-Party 
stakeholders in climate action. An increasing number of Parties are involving subnational 
entities, the private sector and civil society in both the design and implementation of NDCs. 
Notably,  95  per  cent  of  Parties  reported  engagement  of  non-Party  stakeholders  in  NDC 
implementation,  20  per  cent  more  than  in  their  previous  NDCs.  Subnational  entities  are 
increasingly involved as partners in planning, implementing and monitoring climate action, 
helping to embed national goals into local plans for coherent implementation. The private 
sector  is  positioned  as  a  co-implementer  and  financier,  contributing  through  innovation, 
partnerships  and  investment  mobilization.  Civil  society  and  academia  play  vital  roles  in 
shaping  inclusive  policies,  advancing  climate  justice  and  providing  scientific  expertise. 
Parties are  collaborating with non-Party stakeholders through voluntary efforts, initiatives 
and coalitions to mobilize resources and scale up climate action, and reported in the NDCs 
that enhanced enabling environments, such as appropriate incentives, sectoral road maps and 
knowledge  platforms,  are  supporting  stakeholder  contributions.  This  shift  from  broad 
consultation  to  multi-stakeholder  implementation  underscores  an  increasing  whole-of-
society and whole-of-economy approach to climate action, thus signalling an alignment with 
the  outcomes  of  the  first  GST  and  reinforcing  the  importance  of  collaborative  climate 
governance. 

17. 
Parties provided clearer and more detailed information  than previously  on  ACE in 
their  new  NDCs.3 All  Parties  provided  information  on  using  at  least  one  ACE  element  to 
promote  implementation  of mitigation  and  adaptation  activities,  generally  communicating 
more  clearly,  and  in  more  detail,  than  in  the  previous  NDCs  on  general  principles,  past 
achievements, future commitments, and needs and gaps in relation to ACE. 

18.  Gender  integration  into  NDCs  is  advancing,  with  Parties  increasingly  considering 
gender to promote inclusive and effective climate action. In their new NDCs, 89 per cent of 
Parties provided information related to gender and 80 per cent affirmed that they will take 
gender into account in implementing the NDCs. Of the Parties that referenced gender, 16 per 
cent had not included reference to gender in their previous NDCs and 35 per cent considered 
gender to a similar extent to previously. Of the Parties that referenced gender in their previous 
NDCs, 51 per cent elaborated more on the topic in their new NDCs. 

19.  A  total  of  72  per  cent  of  Parties  reported  an  increased  focus  on  the  vital  role  of 
Indigenous Peoples and local communities in climate adaptation and mitigation, compared 
with  66  per  cent  previously.  Parties  not  only  acknowledged  the  particular  climate  change 
vulnerabilities  of  Indigenous  Peoples  and  local  communities  but  also  emphasized  the 
importance of strengthening climate action through integration of traditional, Indigenous and 
local knowledge and the increased participation of these groups in climate leadership. Parties 
highlighted the benefits of combining traditional and modern practices while ensuring the 
participation and leadership of Indigenous Peoples and local communities in climate efforts. 
Adaptation actions involving Indigenous Peoples and local communities include developing 
community-based adaptation plans; implementing measures related to terrestrial and ocean 
ecosystems,  food  security,  water  resources  and  disaster  risk  management;  and  using 
indicators to monitor adaptation progress. Mitigation involving Indigenous Peoples and local 
communities  include  measures  related  to  sustainable  waste  and  forestry  management, 
mangrove  restoration,  low-carbon  maritime  transport,  solar-powered  irrigation  and  clean 
cooking solutions. 

3  ACE denotes work under Article 12 of the Paris Agreement. Its objective is to empower all members 

of society to engage in climate action through education, training, public awareness, public 
participation, public access to information and international cooperation on these matters (the six 
ACE elements). Decision 1/CMA.5, para. 176, emphasized the importance of ACE for empowering 
all members of society to engage in climate action and for the consideration of the outcomes of the 
first GST. 

8 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

20. 
It  is  the  first  time  that  a  section  on  children  and  youth  has  featured  in  the  NDC 
synthesis report. A total of 88 per cent of Parties in their new NDCs (compared with 61 per 
cent in their previous NDCs) included information, generally more clearly and in more detail 
than previously, reflecting a stronger commitment to meaningful inclusion, on how children 
and youth have been or will be considered in NDC development and implementation, with 
enhanced recognition of the role of children and youth as agents of change. 

II.  Introduction 

A.  Mandate and background  

21. 
In accordance with the Paris Agreement, each Party is to prepare, communicate and 
maintain, every five years, successive NDCs that it intends to achieve and each successive 
NDC  will  represent  progression  reflecting  the  Party’s  highest  possible  ambition  and  be 
informed by the outcomes of the GST.4 The communicated NDCs are to be recorded in the 
NDC registry, maintained by the secretariat. 

22. 
Further,  under  the  Paris  Agreement,  in  communicating  their  NDCs,  Parties  are  to 
provide the information necessary for clarity, transparency and understanding in accordance 
with decision 1/CP.21 and any relevant decisions of the CMA.5 

23.  COP 21 decided that Parties shall submit their NDCs to the secretariat at least 9–12 
months  in  advance  of  the  relevant  CMA  session  with  a  view  to  facilitating  the  clarity, 
transparency and understanding of the NDCs, including through a synthesis report prepared 
by the secretariat.6 

24.  CMA  1  adopted  further  guidance  on  the  information  necessary  for  clarity, 
transparency  and  understanding  of  NDC. 7  It  emphasized  that  the  guidance  is  without 
prejudice to the inclusion of components other than information on mitigation in an NDC and 
decided that, in communicating their second and subsequent NDCs, Parties shall provide the 
information  necessary  for  clarity,  transparency  and  understanding  as  applicable  to  their 
NDCs.8  

25.  CMA 3 requested the secretariat to annually update the NDC synthesis report and to 
make it available to the CMA at each of its sessions.9 

26.  CMA  5,  reaffirming  the  nationally  determined  nature  of  NDCs  and  Article  4, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement, encouraged Parties to come forward in their next NDCs 
(2025) with ambitious, economy-wide emission reduction targets, covering all GHGs, sectors 
and categories and aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5 °C, as informed by the latest 
science,  in  the  light  of  different  national  circumstances.  It  also  encouraged  Parties  to 
communicate  in  2025  their  NDCs  with  an  end  date  of  2035,  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of 
decision 6/CMA.3.10 

4   Article 4, paras. 2, 3 and 9, of the Paris Agreement. 
5  Article 4, para. 8, of the Paris Agreement.  
6  Decision 1/CP.21, para. 25. 
7  Decision 4/CMA.1, paras. 6–10. The information necessary for clarity, transparency and 

understanding is contained in annex I to that decision. 

8  Decision 4/CMA.1, paras. 7–8. 
9  Decision 1/CMA.3, para. 30. 
10  Decision 1/CMA.5, paras. 39 and 170.  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

B.  Scope and approach 

27. 
This report synthesizes information from the 64 new NDCs, representing 64 Parties11 
to  the  Paris  Agreement,  recorded  in  the  NDC  registry12 between  1  January  2024  and  30 
September 2025.  

The  guidance  on 

28. 
transparency  and 
understanding  of  NDCs  was  used  as  a  general  framework  for  synthesizing  the  relevant 
information  contained  in  the  communicated  NDCs, 13  which  was  supplemented  by  the 
synthesis of other information included in the NDCs but not covered by the guidance. 

information  necessary  for  clarity, 

the 

29. 
This report covers information communicated by Parties in their new NDCs and the 
synthesized  information  is  presented  for  all  those  Parties  taken  together.  It  also  provides, 
where possible, a comparison between those Parties’ previous and new NDCs. 

The approach to and methods for estimating projected emission levels resulting from 

30. 
NDC implementation are described in a separate technical document.14 

III.  Overview of nationally determined contributions 

The NDCs considered in this report cover about 30 per cent of total global emissions 

31. 
(excluding LULUCF) in 2019.  

32.  A  total  of  91  per  cent  of  Parties  provided  the  information  necessary  for  clarity, 
transparency and understanding of their NDCs in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 8, of 
the Paris Agreement and paragraph 27 of decision 1/CP.21. 

33. 
Furthermore, all Parties provided other information, such as on policy frameworks, 
gender,  children  and  youth,  Indigenous  Peoples  and  local  communities,  ACE,  non-Party 
stakeholder  engagement,  international  cooperation,  outcomes  of  the  GST,  just  transition, 
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, forests, ocean, mitigation co-benefits, adaptation, domestic 
mitigation measures, and means of implementation necessary for NDC implementation. The 
relevant information is synthesized in the chapters below. 

34.  All  Parties  communicated  in  their  NDCs  the  time  frame  and/or  period  of 
implementation,  which  refers  to  a  time  in  the  future  by  or  in  which  an  objective  is  to  be 
achieved.  A  total  of  89  per  cent  of  Parties  communicated  a  time  frame  and/or  period  of 
implementation of until 2035, while 9 per cent of Parties specified periods of until 2030 and 
2 per cent until 2041.  

35.  All  Parties  prepared  their  NDCs  taking  into  account  their  unique  national 
circumstances,  covering  factors  such  as  government  structure,  population  (i.e.  size  and 
density),  economic  profile  (e.g.  export-oriented  or  reliant  on  international  trade),  climate 
conditions  (e.g.  vulnerabilities  such  as  arid  environments,  water  scarcity  and  heat)  and 
geographical characteristics (e.g. landlocked, mountainous, coastal and archipelagic profiles).  

11    Andorra, Angola, Australia, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), 

Botswana, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Eswatini, Ethiopia, Holy See, 
Iceland, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Maldives, 
Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, 
Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, 
Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Serbia, Seychelles, 
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu, United Arab Emirates, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu, 
Zambia and Zimbabwe. The list of the NDCs considered in this report follows the approach taken by 
the PAICC in relation to the communication of NDCs; see the report on the 15th meeting of the 
PAICC (PAICC/2025/M15/3), available at https://unfccc.int/PAICC. 

12  Available at https://unfccc.int/NDCREG.  
13  As per decision 1/CP.21, para. 25.  
14  Available at https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/nationally-determined-

contributions-ndcs/2025-ndc-synthesis-report.  

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

36. 
In addition, 67 per cent of Parties highlighted contextual aspirations and priority areas 
in relation to NDC preparation and implementation, such as maximizing synergies between 
short- and long-term climate commitments and the SDGs; facilitating adaptation and climate-
resilient development; facilitating international cooperation among Parties and international 
organizations  for  the  provision  of  financial,  technological  and  capacity-building  support; 
deploying low-emission technologies to drive emission reduction; safeguarding food security 
and  human  health  and  eradicating  poverty;  involving  youth,  local  governments  and 
communities  and  Indigenous  Peoples  in  a  gender-responsive  and  human  rights-based 
approach;  ensuring  just  transition  of  the  workforce;  promoting  social  and  climate  justice, 
circular economy and integrated resource management; ensuring the ecological integrity of 
ecosystems, oceans and blue carbon; reducing the risk of disasters; and reducing the impacts 
of loss and damage associated with climate change. 

37.  All Parties explained how they consider their NDCs to be fair and ambitious in the 
light of their national circumstances. Frequently highlighted elements include Parties’ efforts 
to reduce emissions despite considering their own responsibility for causing climate change 
to be limited owing to their low share in either current or historical global emissions, limited 
financial  resources  and  technical  capacity,  the  need  to  address  other  socioeconomic  and 
sustainable  development  priorities  such  as  poverty  eradication,  and  the  need  to  prioritize 
adaptation efforts because of high vulnerability to the adverse impacts of climate change.  

38.  A total of 48 per cent of Parties framed fairness consideration in the context of their 
past, current and future share in global emissions and per capita emissions compared with 
global  averages.  Other  aspects  of  fairness  described  by  Parties  include  the  decoupling  of 
economic development from emission growth; climate justice; mitigation potential; cost of 
mitigation actions; and degree of progression15 beyond the current level of effort. 

39.  All Parties included information on how their NDCs represent progression and their 
highest possible ambition. This progression is demonstrated by setting more ambitious and 
comprehensive  targets,  expanding  sectoral  and  gas  coverage,  strengthening  policy  and 
legislative frameworks, and aligning  targets  with scientific recommendations and national 
circumstances.  The  enhanced  emission  reduction  targets  are  aligned  with  the  long-term 
objective of achieving net zero emissions by 2050. Building on existing policies, measures 
and investments, new commitments relating to adaptation and addressing loss and damage 
have been introduced, setting a pathway towards a resilient, net zero society by 2050.  

40.  Meanwhile, 33 per cent of Parties provided information on ambition by linking their 
NDCs  to  their  commitment  to  transition  to  a  sustainable  and/or  low-carbon  and  resilient 
economy; 13 per cent expressed that they have incorporated their NDC goals and policies 
into  national  legislative,  regulatory  and  planning  processes  as  a  means  of  ensuring 
implementation; and 11 per cent addressed ambition in the context of the inclusive design of 
their  NDCs,  considering  various  cross-cutting  aspects,  such  as  investment  plans,  gender-
responsiveness, education and just transition. 

41. 
Further, 41 per cent of Parties stated that their NDCs are in line with the long-term 
goals  of  the  Paris  Agreement  or  with  the  mitigation  pathways  towards  limiting  global 
warming to well below 2 or 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels.  

IV.  Cross-cutting elements, including planning and 

implementation processes, in nationally determined 
contributions 

42.  A total of 98 per cent of Parties indicated that domestic institutional arrangements are 
a key element of coordinating, planning and implementing climate change policy and action 
at the national and international level. Most of them referred to specific arrangements in place 
for NDC preparation, such as inter-institutional commissions, councils and committees, led 

15  In this report, “progression” refers to the difference between the estimated emission levels associated 
with the implementation of Parties’ NDCs communicated to the secretariat by 31 December 2023 and 
those according to the NDCs recorded in the NDC registry between 1 January 2024 and 30 September 
2025.  

11 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

by a designated entity with a coordination role and including members from public entities, 
the private sector, non-governmental organizations and/or academia. 

A.  Policy frameworks, climate laws and governance mechanisms 

1.  Legal and policy frameworks 

43.  A  total  of  97  per  cent  of  Parties  provided  information  on  the  legal  and  policy 
frameworks  that  facilitate  the  implementation  of  their  NDCs.  Some  8  per  cent  of  Parties 
reported  that  their  national  constitutions  provide  the  overarching  legal  basis  or  guiding 
framework  for  national  climate  action;  and  41  per  cent  pointed  to  the  adoption  of 
comprehensive climate change acts, laws or decrees that establish the legal framework  for 
NDC implementation. In addition, 39 per cent of Parties referred to their national climate 
change  policies  and  41  per  cent  to  their  national  climate  change  strategies  and  plans  as 
important instruments for supporting NDC implementation. 

44.  Regarding mitigation measures, 17 per cent of Parties cited national acts or decrees 
specifically addressing mitigation and 19 per cent referred to their national climate change 
mitigation strategies, policies or plans. A total of 33 per cent of Parties highlighted their low 
greenhouse gas emission strategies or plans and how these policy instruments inform their 
NDCs, while 14 per cent reported having net zero emission legislation or strategies in place 
and 17 per cent provided information on laws or policies establishing mitigation mechanisms, 
such as national carbon markets, carbon budgets and carbon trading schemes. 

45.  With respect to adaptation measures, 41 per cent of Parties reported having national 
climate  change  adaptation  plans,  while  17  per  cent  indicated  that  such  plans  are  under 
development. In addition, 20 per cent of Parties referred to national climate change adaptation 
programmes,  strategies  or  policies  and  16  per  cent  mentioned  climate  change  adaptation 
strategies or plans specific to different sectors. Legal instruments addressing adaptation and 
climate change were reported by 5 per cent of Parties. 

46.  A  total  of  94  per  cent  of  Parties  reported  on  legal  and  policy  instruments  that 
contribute to the implementation of their NDCs in key sectors such as energy, environment, 
water, waste, agriculture and food security, forestry, disaster risk reduction and management, 
health, urban and spatial planning, transport, and buildings, construction and infrastructure 
(see figure 1). 

47.  A total of 69 per cent of Parties referred to energy-related legal and policy frameworks 
that  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  their  NDCs.  These  frameworks  include  both 
overarching  instruments  and specific  laws  and  policies,  for  example  on  energy  transition, 
renewable energy, energy efficiency and electrification. Information on environment-related 
legal and policy instruments with climate change components was provided by 77 per cent 
of  Parties.  These  instruments  include  general  environmental  legislation  as  well  as  sector-
specific frameworks primarily related to biodiversity, coastal zones, oceans and pollution. 

48.  Water-related  legal  and policy frameworks were reported by  33 per cent of Parties 
and waste-related legal and policy frameworks by 38 per cent of Parties as contributing to 
the implementation of their NDCs. In addition, 41 per cent of Parties reported on legal and 
policy frameworks related to agriculture and food security and 44 per cent on forestry-related 
legal and policy frameworks, of which 32 per cent specifically referred to national REDD+ 
strategies as instrumental in supporting NDC implementation. Legal and policy frameworks 
pertaining  to  disaster  risk  reduction  and  management  were  highlighted  by  34  per  cent  of 
Parties as supporting NDC implementation.  

49.  A total of 13 per cent of Parties reported legislative and policy instruments addressing 
health,  28  per  cent  highlighted  legislation,  strategies  and  policies  related  to  transport, 
including  decarbonization,  13  per  cent  of  Parties  mentioned  legal  and  policy  frameworks 
related  to  urban  and  spatial  planning,  13  per  cent  of  Parties  referred  to  circular  economy 
instruments and 25 per cent of Parties reported legislation, policies and strategies related to 
buildings, construction and infrastructure. These were all noted as contributing to the broader 
legal and policy frameworks underpinning NDC implementation. 

12 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Figure 1 
Share of Parties that reported legal and policy instruments that contribute to the 
implementation of their nationally determined contributions by key sector 

Circular economy, 13%

Buildings, construction and 
infrastructure, 25%

Urban and spatial 
planning, 13%

Transport, 28%

Health, 13%

Disaster risk 
reduction and 
management, 34%

Forestry, 44%

Energy, 69%

Environment, 
77%

Agriculture and 
food security, 
41%

Water, 33%

Waste, 38%

50.  Climate  change  considerations  have  been 
incorporated  within  sustainable 
development related frameworks. For instance, 47 per cent of Parties highlighted sustainable 
development legislation, agendas, strategies and plans as instruments for aligning national 
development priorities with climate change action, thereby supporting NDC implementation, 
and 22 per cent referred to economic and financial instruments as part of the legal and policy 
frameworks supporting NDC implementation. 

2.  Governance mechanisms 

51.  A  total  of  94  per  cent  of  Parties  provided  information  on  their  processes  for 
coordinating the preparation or update of their NDCs. Of those Parties, 98 per cent identified 
the  specific  arrangements  in  place  for  NDC  preparation,  such  as  inter-institutional 
commissions,  councils  and  committees,  led  by  interministerial  designated  entities  with 
coordination  roles  and  including  members  from  public  entities,  the  private  sector,  non-
governmental organizations and/or academia. As for NDC implementation specifically, 86 
per cent of Parties reflected a strong reliance on national governance structures, including 
interministerial committees, local entities, councils and sectoral coordination bodies. 

3. 

Stakeholder consultation mechanisms 

52.  A total of 95 per cent of Parties referred to formal arrangements in place for consulting 
stakeholders, including the general public, local communities, Indigenous Peoples, private 
entities,  business  and  trade  associations,  civil  society  organizations,  youth  associations, 
women’s associations, regional development partners, academia, and research communities. 
Of those Parties, 67 per cent indicated that they conducted such consultation and engagement 
processes  in  an  inclusive  and  participatory  manner,  with  such  processes  including  the 
establishment  of  committees  or  councils;  the  use  of  legal  instruments  like  national  laws, 
decrees  and  acts;  the  deployment  of  digital  platforms;  government-led  online  stakeholder 
engagement with a structured submission process; multi-stakeholder consultations through 
co-creation workshops, bilateral meetings and public hearings; and mandated parliamentary 
consent or legislative hearings for NDC adoption. 

4.  Measurement, reporting and verification systems 

53.  A total of 92 per cent of Parties provided information on their domestic MRV systems, 
of which 34 per cent indicated that the systems are under development, planned for future 

13 

 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

development or partially operational and 29 per cent reported that the systems are operational 
and being revamped or enhanced. Of these 92 per cent of Parties, 80 per cent directly linked 
the MRV systems to the processes for preparing or updating their national GHG inventories 
and BTRs or for meeting other reporting requirements under the ETF.  

54.  A  total  of  75 per  cent of  Parties  provided  information  on  the  formal processes  for 
tracking the progress of NDC implementation and achievement, including structured tracking 
mechanisms such as MRV systems or institutional arrangements as well as legal and policy 
frameworks. Of those Parties, 38 per cent referred to legal and policy frameworks in place or 
under development for supporting tracking efforts and 42 per cent reported that their existing 
tracking mechanisms are being enhanced. Additionally, among these 75 per cent of Parties, 
40  per  cent  indicated  plans  to  periodically  review,  update  and  revise  their  tracking 
mechanisms, which include national MRV frameworks, monitoring and evaluation systems, 
climate observatories and digital platforms for data collection and analysis. 

B.  Gender 

55.  A total of 89 per cent of Parties provided information related to gender and  80 per 
cent affirmed that they will take gender into account in implementing their NDCs. 

56.  While 73 per cent of Parties referred to relevant policies and legislation, 83 per cent 
affirmed a general commitment to gender equality. Others also included information on how 
gender had been or was planned to be mainstreamed in NDC implementation; for instance, 
66 per cent of Parties reported the use of specific tools and methods, such as gender analyses, 
gender indicators, gender-disaggregated data and gender-responsive budgeting. 

57.  Overall, 61 per cent of Parties referred to their planned gender-responsive and 30 per 
cent  to  gender-sensitive  climate  action  or  generally  elaborated  on  gender  aspects  in  the 
context of specific sectors or areas, including just transition, agriculture, energy, health, water, 
LULUCF, disaster risk reduction, waste,  industry, water, sanitation and hygiene, transport 
and education. 

58.  Meanwhile, 58 per cent of Parties highlighted the importance of providing capacity-
building,  finance  and  technology  for  gender-specific  action  and  of  these  means  of 
implementation being gender-responsive. 

59. 
In  addition,  44  per  cent  of  Parties  implicitly  or  explicitly  considered  gender  as  it 
intersects  with  other  social  factors;  72  per  cent  explicitly  considered  specific  gender-
differentiated needs and perspectives and gender-differentiated impacts of and contributions 
to climate change and climate action; 72 per cent framed women as being vulnerable; 53 per 
cent framed women as stakeholders or agents of change; and 13 per cent explicitly considered 
people of other genders. 

60. 
Parties  are  increasingly  considering  gender  in  their  NDCs  and  recognizing  gender 
integration as a means of increasing the ambition and effectiveness of their climate action. A 
greater share of Parties referred to gender in the new NDCs compared with in their previous 
NDCs and the share of Parties considering gender as a cross-cutting issue has also risen (see 
figure 2). 

61.  Of the Parties that considered gender, 42 per cent elaborated more on the topic in their 
new than in their previous NDCs, 16 per cent had previously not included any reference to 
gender  in  their  NDCs  and  40  per  cent  considered  gender  to  a  similar  or decreased  extent 
compared with previously. 

62.  A total of 13 per cent of Parties considered the outcomes of the first GST as they relate 
to gender. For instance, three Parties presented information on the implementation of climate 
policy and action that is gender-responsive and fully respects human rights. 

14 

 
Figure 2 
Reference to gender in nationally determined contributions 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

33%

50%

Cross-cutting

Focus: adaptation

Focus: mitigation

5%

3%

17%
17%

8%

2%

2%
2%

Adaptation

Mitigation

Not clear

13%

16%

No reference

11%

23%

Previous NDCs

New NDCs

C.  Children and youth 

63. 
In  total,  52  per  cent  of  Parties  referred  to  the  disproportionate  impacts  of  climate 
change on children and youth, with 27 per cent highlighting the heightened vulnerabilities of 
girls in this context in particular. It was noted that children and youth face higher risks from 
the direct and indirect impacts of climate change as a result of their limited adaptive capacity 
as well as limited access to information, resources and decision-making processes, with 30 
per  cent  of  Parties  mentioning  specific  measures  to  strengthen  the  climate  resilience  and 
promote a just transition of children and youth, particularly through targeted action on health, 
education  (see  para. 72  below),  food  security,  water,  sanitation  and  hygiene,  disaster  risk 
reduction and social protection. 

64.  A total of 88 per cent of Parties (compared with 61 per cent in their previous NDCs) 
included  information,  generally  more  clearly  and  in  more  detail  than  previously,  on  how 
children and youth have been or will be considered in NDC development and implementation, 
with enhanced recognition of the role of children and youth as agents of change.16 Of those 
Parties, 79 per cent set out their vision and priorities for engaging and empowering children 
and youth to contribute to climate action, 77 per cent put forward specific measures to involve 
them  in  the  implementation  of  climate  policies  and  action  (e.g.  awareness-raising  and 
capacity-building  activities,  support  for  youth-led  initiatives  and  innovations,  child-  and 
youth-inclusive  decision-making  processes,  and  collection  of  age-disaggregated  data  in 
relation to climate change) and 57 per cent explicitly mentioned that they engaged children 
and youth in developing their NDCs. 

D. 

Indigenous Peoples and local communities 

65.  A total of 72 per cent of Parties reported an increased focus on the role of Indigenous 
Peoples  and  local  communities  in  climate  action  (6  per  cent  more  than  in  their  previous 
NDCs), with 52 per cent including information on the involvement of Indigenous Peoples 
and  local  communities  in  national-level  policymaking,  including  in  NDC  preparation, 

16  In decision 1/CMA.5, para. 178, CMA 5 encouraged Parties to implement climate policy and action 

that empowers youth and children, which was explicitly referred to by 3 per cent of Parties. 

15 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

through consultations on sectoral proposals, risk assessments and application of traditional, 
Indigenous and local knowledge, compared with 30 per cent of Parties previously.  

66.  Overall, 41 per cent of Parties emphasized the vulnerabilities of Indigenous Peoples 
and local communities, particularly owing to their reliance on natural resources and risk of 
poverty,  compared  with  27  per  cent  previously.  The  benefits  of  applying  traditional 
knowledge and knowledge of Indigenous Peoples and local communities in adaptation and 
mitigation  efforts  were  highlighted  by  44  per  cent  of  Parties,  compared  with  31  per  cent 
previously.  Parties  also  stressed  the  importance  of  combining  traditional  and  modern 
practices  while  ensuring  the  participation  and  leadership  of  Indigenous  Peoples  and  local 
communities in climate efforts. 

67.  Meanwhile, 64 per cent of Parties provided examples of adaptation action design and 
implementation efforts by and for Indigenous Peoples and local communities, up from 53 per 
cent in their previous NDCs. The examples include developing community-based adaptation 
plans; formulating and implementing adaptation measures, particularly relating to terrestrial 
and  ocean  ecosystems,  food  security  and  nutrition,  water  resources  and  disaster  risk 
management; and using quantified targets and indicators focused on Indigenous Peoples and 
local communities for monitoring and evaluating adaptation progress.  

68. 
Further,  47  per  cent  of  Parties  described  mitigation  efforts  undertaken  by  and  for 
Indigenous  Peoples  and  local  communities,  up  from  23  per  cent  in  their  previous  NDCs, 
which include the development and implementation of sustainable waste management and 
forestry plans, mangrove afforestation strategies, low-carbon maritime transport plans, solar-
powered irrigation efforts and clean cooking solutions.  

69. 
In addition, 20 per cent of Parties outlined the need for increased financial resources, 
capacity-building and technology for Indigenous Peoples and local communities, compared 
with 16 per cent in their previous NDCs. 

E.  Action for Climate Empowerment17 

70.  All  Parties  provided  information  on  using  at  least  one  ACE  element  to  promote 
implementation  of  mitigation  and  adaptation  activities,  generally  communicating  more 
clearly, and in more detail, than in previous NDCs on general principles, past achievements, 
future commitments, and needs and gaps in relation to ACE. 

71. 
In total, 22 per cent of Parties referred to ACE as a necessary means of mobilizing 
and empowering society to deliver the mitigation and adaptation objectives outlined in their 
NDCs,  including  by  upholding  ACE  as  a  guiding  principle  and  cross-cutting  priority  for 
climate  policies  and  action,  developing  and  implementing  national  ACE  strategies,  and 
incorporating ACE and its elements into general and sectoral climate policies and plans. 

72.  A total of 78 per cent of Parties, up from 55 per cent in their previous NDCs, reported 
on climate change education measures aimed at equipping learners with the knowledge, skills, 
attitudes and values necessary to contribute to climate action. Measures include establishing 
laws and policies to ensure the provision of climate change education, updating curricula to 
ensure coverage of climate change topics at all levels of education, implementing climate-
focused educational programmes and activities, making schools and educational institutions 
more low-carbon and climate-resilient, and providing training and resources for teachers and 
educators.  Compared  with  in  their  previous  NDCs,  Parties’  focus  on  strengthening  the 
resilience  of  the  education  system,  thus  minimizing  education  disruption  in  the  face  of 
climate-related shocks, was increased in their new NDCs. 

73.  A total of 84 per cent of Parties reported on efforts to raise public awareness of climate 
change  with  a  view  to  fostering  changes  in  behaviour  and  lifestyle  and  enhancing  the 
effectiveness of climate policies and action, compared with 64 per cent, and generally in more 
detail than, in the previous NDCs. Measures include developing dedicated communication 
strategies and plans, identifying awareness-raising as a key pillar of climate policies, plans 
and strategies, conducting public awareness campaigns at all levels, and applying awareness-

17   As footnote 3 above. 

16 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

raising measures for specific sectors, most commonly energy, health, agriculture, fisheries, 
forestry and waste.  

74. 
In  addition,  80  per  cent  of  Parties,  up  from  55  per  cent  in  their  previous  NDCs, 
provided  information  on  training  measures,  with  an  increasing  emphasis  on  the  skilling, 
reskilling and upskilling of the population in the context of achieving  a just transition and 
promoting  the  uptake  of  green  jobs.  Measures  to  build  the  skills  and  capacity  of  diverse 
stakeholders for implementing climate mitigation and adaptation action include integrating 
climate change into training programmes for government officials and other stakeholders in 
both the public and the private sector, and using training as a sector-specific mitigation and 
adaptation  measure,  particularly  in  the  agriculture,  energy,  fisheries,  forestry,  health  and 
disaster risk reduction sectors.  

75.  As regards public participation, 95 per cent of Parties (compared with 88 per cent in 
their previous NDCs) indicated, generally more clearly and in more detail than previously, 
that  this  is  key  to  applying  a  whole-of-society  approach  to  effective,  ambitious  climate 
decision-making  and  action.  In  particular,  Parties  presented  information  on  inclusive  and 
participatory  processes  undertaken  to  involve  diverse  stakeholders,  including  the  general 
public, in developing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating climate policies and plans.18 
A  total  of  61  per  cent  of  Parties  highlighted  support  provided  for  community-based  and 
locally  led  climate  action,  thus  enabling  local  communities  and  organizations  to  play key 
roles in planning and implementing climate action and enhancing their capacities to respond 
to climate change. 

76. 
Further,  66  per  cent  of  Parties  reported  on  public  access  to  information,  aimed  at 
ensuring transparency of and accountability for climate policies and action, compared with 
41 per cent in their previous NDCs. Measures include upholding public access to information 
as a principle in and priority of climate decision-making and action in order to increase public 
awareness and the engagement of diverse stakeholders, and developing databases, websites 
and systems to facilitate open access to reliable, robust and up-to-date climate information 
and  data.  Also,  25  per  cent  of  Parties  are  using  labelling  to  inform  consumers  about  the 
sustainability of products and services. 

F.  Broad non-Party stakeholder engagement and voluntary efforts to 

support climate action 

77.  A total of 98 per cent of Parties highlighted the engagement of non-Party stakeholders 
in  NDC  preparation  and/or  implementation,  reflecting  their  importance  therein,  compared 
with 91 per cent of Parties in their previous NDCs. Similarly, 95 per cent of Parties reported 
engagement  of  non-Party  stakeholders  specifically  in  NDC  implementation  –  20  per  cent 
more than in their previous NDCs. Subnational entities, private sector stakeholders and civil 
society were frequently cited. Parties reported involving these stakeholders across mitigation, 
adaptation  and  means  of  implementation.  The  level  of  detail  varied  from  general 
acknowledgements of their role in NDC design and delivery to comprehensive descriptions 
of their contributions to accelerating climate action.19 In their new NDCs, Parties provided 
greater  detail  than  previously  on  the  roles  and  contributions  of  non-Party  stakeholders  in 
relation  to  climate  action,  generally  engaging  a  broader  range  of  actors.  Parties  are 
increasingly  shifting  from  broad  consultations  with  non-Party  stakeholders  towards  more 
structured, multi-stakeholder implementation, with defined roles for subnational entities, the 
private sector as co-implementer and financier, and civil society as a catalyst for awareness 
and inclusivity. 

78.  Overall, 80 per cent of Parties referenced subnational entities, an increase of 19 per 
cent compared with their previous NDCs, with 63 per cent of Parties recognizing them as 
partners in planning, implementing and monitoring climate action, in some cases having their 

18  See para. 52 above for more information on stakeholder consultation mechanisms with regard to NDC 

development, including the relevant institutional arrangements. 

19  See paras. 51 and 52 above on governance mechanisms and stakeholder consultation mechanisms 
respectively, which include information on the involvement of non-Party stakeholders in NDC 
development. 

17 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

roles defined through frameworks that enable them to undertake local planning activities and 
implementation. A total of 69 per cent of Parties mentioned consultative processes involving 
subnational entities in NDC and adaptation planning as well as embedding national climate 
targets  into  regional  and  local  plans  for  coherent  and  multi-stakeholder  implementation. 
Further, 42 per cent of Parties emphasized the importance of capacity-building, financial and 
technical support for subnational  entities in  climate  action, and  mentioned providing such 
support.  Climate  action  undertaken  by  subnational  entities  was  reported  across  multiple 
sectors,  including  energy,  transport,  agriculture,  water,  ocean  and  coastal  zones,  waste 
management, buildings and urban planning, health, biodiversity, industry and tourism. 

79.  A  total  of  92  per  cent of  Parties  referred  to  involving  the  private  sector,  including 
businesses and industry stakeholders, in NDC preparation and implementation, with 86 per 
cent of Parties (15 per cent more than in their previous NDCs) emphasizing its role in climate 
action. This role was reported as including co-developing and delivering renewable energy 
and  energy  efficiency programmes,  driving  industrial  and  sectoral  decarbonization  efforts 
and  implementing  adaptation measures  in  areas  such  as  water  supply,  agriculture,  coastal 
protection  and  tourism.  Further,  67  per  cent of  Parties  highlighted  enabling  environments 
such as policies or incentives to guide businesses in NDC implementation, with 19 per cent 
of  Parties  specifically  mentioning  national  or  sectoral  road  maps  and  strategies  for  this 
purpose.  In  addition,  31  per  cent  of  Parties  reported  using  public–private  partnerships  as 
delivery models for operationalizing the aforementioned measures. Meanwhile, 11 per cent 
of Parties mentioned disclosure or reporting frameworks for aligning business practices with 
climate objectives. A total of 42 per cent of Parties underscored the private sector’s role in 
innovation, including the development, transfer and deployment of low-carbon technology, 
with 22 per cent of Parties specifically noting micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, 
start-ups and entrepreneurs as drivers of low-carbon development, innovation and green job 
creation. Further, 34 per cent of Parties referred to capacity-building of the private sector to 
enhance  its  ability  to  implement  climate  action,  and  capacity-building  delivered  by  the 
private sector, including through public–private collaboration. 

80.  A  total  of  75  per  cent  of  Parties  (20  per  cent  more  than  in  their  previous  NDCs) 
referenced the mobilization of private finance, including the role of financial institutions such 
as investors, banks and insurers, for implementing NDCs. A total of 70 per cent of Parties 
reported  efforts  to  mobilize  private  investment  through  financial  mechanisms  and 
instruments such as blended-finance schemes or green bonds, while citing the use of risk-
sharing and risk-transfer mechanisms for addressing adaptation. Meanwhile, 64 per cent of 
Parties reported creating or strengthening enabling environments to crowd in private capital 
to  finance  climate  action,  including  through  national or  sectoral  investment plans,  project 
pipelines, green taxonomies and fiscal or regulatory incentives.20 Private sector investment 
was  most  frequently  referred  to  in  relation  to  climate  action  in  the  areas  of  energy, 
infrastructure and urban development, agriculture, industry, water, ocean and coastal zones, 
and  waste  management,  with  increasing  private  sector  investment  also  in  adaptation  and 
resilience-building.  

81.  A total of 94 per cent of Parties reported engaging civil society,21 including academia, 
in  NDC  design  and  implementation  for,  among  others,  policy  formulation,  technical  and 
scientific  analysis,  capacity-building  and  monitoring.  A  total  of  63  per  cent  of  Parties 
reported that civil society actors help to raise awareness of climate change and its impacts, 
promote inclusivity and support the implementation of mitigation, adaptation and loss and 
damage  measures.  Some  36  per  cent  of  Parties  recognized  the  role  of  civil  society  in 
advancing just transition and climate  justice, while 22 per  cent of Parties  mentioned civil 
society actors as partners in mobilizing support for local climate action, including through 
resource  mobilization,  community-level  project  implementation,  and  efforts  to  improve 
access to capacity and funding opportunities. Meanwhile, 55 per cent of Parties highlighted 
the role of academic institutions in climate and sectoral modelling, data provision and training 

20  See chap. VIII below for related information, including para. 185 below on carbon markets under 

Article 6 of the Paris Agreement often linked by Parties to the private sector and para. 188(c) below 
on difficulties in mobilizing private finance.  

21  See chap. IV.B–E above on gender, children and youth, Indigenous Peoples and local communities, 

and ACE for related information.  

18 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

on  climate  change  related  technical  skills,  often  through  national  knowledge  hubs  or 
partnerships  with  international  networks.  Further,  36  per  cent  of  Parties  described  how 
academic institutions can help to bridge the gaps between government, science and society, 
ensuring that climate policies are informed by local realities and scientific evidence. 

82.  A total of 56 per cent of Parties reported participating in international voluntary efforts, 
initiatives and coalitions as means of scaling up and implementing climate action, mobilizing 
resources and advancing NDC implementation,22 all of which involve non-Party stakeholders. 
Some  22  per  cent  of  Parties  described  non-Party  stakeholder  participation  in  domestic 
initiatives focusing on forest protection and restoration, marine protection, decarbonization 
and emission management, among other areas. Further, 6 per cent of Parties referred to the 
Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action, under the leadership of the climate high-
level  champions,  or  to  their  products,  tools  and  campaigns  launched  to  scale  up  and 
strengthen voluntary efforts, initiatives and coalitions. 

83.  A total of 25 per cent of Parties described the role of non-Party stakeholders in the 
context of the outcomes of the first GST, with 9 per cent of Parties highlighting partnerships 
with the private sector, research institutions and local communities for advancing measures 
related  to  renewable  energy,  zero-  and  low-emission  technologies,  and  energy  efficiency. 
Some  5  per  cent  of  Parties  mentioned  deforestation  reduction,  forest  restoration  and 
biodiversity protection as priority areas for action, often involving agribusiness leaders, local 
governments  and  international  partners  in  joint  initiatives;  while  11  per  cent  of  Parties 
underscored  the  importance  of  engaging  non-Party  stakeholders  for  inclusive  climate 
governance, responding to the outcome of the first GST emphasizing the need for whole-of-
society engagement in climate action. 

G. 

International cooperation 

84.  A  total  of  97  per  cent  of  Parties  expressed  their  intention  to  pursue  international 
cooperation in strengthening their climate action with a view to achieving their NDCs and 
the goals of the Paris Agreement. They indicated the importance of international cooperation 
for mobilizing resources, exchanging views, information and good practices, and promoting 
an international system that enables cooperation and sustainable development. Various areas 
of  international  cooperation  were  described  in  the  NDCs,  including  with  regard  to  NDC 
preparation  and  implementation;  sectoral  mitigation  and  adaptation  measures;  voluntary 
initiatives for supporting climate action; regional cooperation; MRV of GHG emissions and 
removals; measures for addressing loss and damage; finance, technology development and 
transfer, and capacity-building support and voluntary cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement (see figure 3).23  

22  See chap. IV.G, including para. 88 below for more information on international voluntary initiatives.  
23   See chap. VIII below for more information on finance, technology development and transfer, and 
capacity-building support and chap. IV.J on voluntary cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement below. 

19 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Figure 3 
Shares of Parties referring to areas of international cooperation in their nationally 
determined contributions 

72%

58%

44%

41%

39%

NDC implementation

Voluntary initiatives

Regional cooperation

Energy

NDC preparation

GHG data MRV

Agriculture

Forestry

Waste

Water

19%

17%

17%

13%

13%

85.  A total of 72 per cent of Parties highlighted that international cooperation is critical 
for  fully  implementing  NDCs,  particularly  with  regard  to  climate  finance,  technology 
development and transfer, and capacity-building support. They emphasized the importance 
of  strengthening  partnerships  and  support  to  bridge  the  gap  between  NDC  ambition  and 
implementation. 

86.  A  total  of  39  per  cent  of  Parties  reported  the  support  received  and  provided  for 
preparing  NDCs,  often  involving  extensive  collaboration  with  international  partners, 
including  through  technical  assistance,  capacity-building  and  financial  contributions, 
enabling the conduct of stakeholder consultations and sectoral studies, the development of 
GHG inventories and the strengthening of MRV systems.  

87.  Overall, 52 per cent of Parties described engaging in international cooperation in key 
sectors  such  as  energy,  agriculture,  forestry,  health,  water  and  waste  management  to 
accelerate sector-specific decarbonization, enhance climate resilience and address adaptation 
priorities. Such cooperation focuses on, for example, expanding renewable energy generation; 
improving  energy  efficiency;  promoting 
implementation  of 
technologies such as low-carbon hydrogen, CCUS and ocean thermal energy; engaging in 
cross-border  electricity  trading;  climate-smart  agriculture;  REDD+;  sustainable  land  and 
forest  management;  protecting  marine  and  coastal  ecosystems;  sustainable  water 
management; and developing climate-resilient infrastructure. 

the  development  and 

88.  A  total  of  56  per  cent of  Parties  reported  participating  in voluntary  initiatives  as  a 
means of scaling up and implementing climate action, mobilizing resources and advancing 
NDC implementation.24 These initiatives are aimed, for example, at reducing CH4 emissions 
and other short-lived climate pollutants, accelerating energy transitions from fossil fuel use, 
promoting  renewable  energy, 
improving  energy  efficiency  of  cooling,  enhancing 
collaboration between national and subnational governments on climate actions, advancing 
regional  cooperation  on  addressing  climate  change,  and  restoring  forests  and  landscapes. 
Participation  in  these  initiatives  was  reported  as  enabling Parties  to  share  knowledge  and 
coordinate  action  beyond  national  efforts,  thereby  complementing  formal  multilateral 
processes and creating additional momentum for achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement. 

24  See chap. IV.F on broad non-Party stakeholder engagement and voluntary efforts to support climate 
action above for more information on voluntary initiatives in the context of non-Party stakeholder 
engagement. 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

89.  A total of 66 per cent of Parties reported on collaboration with international partners, 
including  a  number  of  United  Nations  agencies,  multilateral  development  banks,  bilateral 
donors, partner countries, development agencies, technical institutions and regional partners, 
in advancing their climate  action and NDCs. The areas of collaboration  include preparing 
NDCs,  identifying  priority  measures,  implementing  mitigation  and  adaptation  projects, 
including those at the sectoral level, and  involving children, youth and women in climate 
action. Partners mentioned in several NDCs include  the  German Agency for International 
Cooperation,  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Green 
Climate Fund, the Global Environment Facility, the  NDC Partnership, the United Nations 
Children’s Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Entity for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, UNEP, UNFCCC regional collaboration 
centres and the World Bank, while bilateral cooperation was also highlighted. Coordinated 
support  from  United  Nations  agencies  and  joint  efforts  with  other  international  partners 
strengthen Parties’ capacity to prepare and implement NDCs, foster effective and inclusive 
climate action and contribute to collective progress towards the goals of the Paris Agreement. 

H.  How the outcomes of the first global stocktake are informing nationally 

determined contributions25 

90.  CMA  5  adopted  decision  1/CMA.5  on  the  outcome  of  the  first  GST,  which  shall 
inform Parties in updating and enhancing, in a nationally determined manner, their actions 
and support in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Paris Agreement as well as in 
enhancing international cooperation for climate action.26 

91.  A  total  of  88  per  cent  of  Parties  indicated  that  the  preparation  of  their  NDCs  was 
informed by the outcomes of the first GST, with 80 per cent of Parties providing information 
on  how  this  was  the  case,  covering  the  elements  of  mitigation,  adaptation,  means  of 
implementation,  response  measures,  loss  and  damage  and  international  cooperation  (see 
figure 4). Reported approaches to considering the GST outcomes as part of NDC preparation 
include  enhancing  mitigation  and  adaptation  ambition,  aligning  the  NDC  with  the  best 
available science, broadening the scope of action covered, including new sectoral targets and 
approaches,  and  taking  into  account  cross-cutting  issues,  such  as  stakeholder  engagement 
and just transition. Of the Parties that provided information, 27 per cent included detailed 
quantitative or qualitative information on how implementing their domestic climate targets 
or measures will contribute to the global efforts called for or goals set out in the outcomes of 
the first GST. 

25  This subchapter covers information provided by Parties pursuant to para. 4(c) of annex I to decision 
4/CMA.1. Other GST-related information provided in the NDCs is synthesized in other relevant 
subchapters.  

26  According to Article 14, para. 3, of the Paris Agreement.  

21 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Figure 4 
Shares of Parties that referred to elements of the outcomes of the first global stocktake 
in their nationally determined contributions 

77%

38%

33%

14%

13%

17%

Mitigation

Adaptation

Means of
implementation

Loss and
damage

Response
measures

International
cooperation

92.  A  total  of  66  per  cent  of  Parties  indicated  that  they  developed  NDC  targets  or 
enhanced ambition in the light of their respective national circumstances, informed by the 
outcomes of the first GST, including the best available science, with 44 per cent of Parties 
emphasizing their commitment to keeping the 1.5 °C temperature goal within reach, 23 per 
cent  indicating  that  their  NDC  targets  are  aligned  with  a 1.5 °C  pathway  and  14 per  cent 
highlighting  that  they  have  come  forward  with  economy-wide  emission  reduction  targets 
covering  all  GHGs,  sectors  and  categories  in  response  to  the  outcomes  of  the  first  GST. 
Moreover, 14 per cent of Parties reported that they aligned their NDCs with their LT-LEDS 
and 5 per cent indicated that they revisited or strengthened the 2030 targets in their NDCs.  

93.  A total of 77 per cent of Parties reported on mitigation ambition and action in response 
to the outcomes of the first GST. Of those Parties, 71 per cent outlined efforts to advance the 
energy  transition,  40  per  cent  of  which  elaborated  on  their  domestic  targets  and  policies 
related to, inter alia, increasing renewable energy capacity and energy efficiency, accelerating 
the phase-down of unabated coal power, transitioning away from fossil  fuel use in energy 
systems, accelerating the development of zero- and low-emission technologies, and reducing 
CH4  and  other  non-CO2  emissions;  36  per  cent  set  out  nature-  and  ecosystem-based 
approaches, particularly to halt and reverse deforestation and forest degradation, 38 per cent 
of which also addressing marine and coastal conservation; and 18 per cent of Parties reported 
on strategies for promoting sustainable lifestyles and patterns of consumption and production, 
and circular economy approaches. 

94.  A total of 38 per cent of Parties reported on efforts to strengthen adaptation, with 13 
per cent of Parties indicating that they are aligning national adaptation targets with the global 
goal on adaptation, recognizing the importance of enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening 
resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change, as highlighted in the outcomes of the 
GST.  The  adaptation  actions  reported  include  strengthening  early  warning  systems, 
improving agricultural resilience, designing and constructing climate-resilient infrastructure, 
developing climate-related health care plans, and preserving and restoring coastal ecosystems. 

95. 
Some 33 per cent of Parties highlighted the importance of means of implementation 
for NDC formulation and implementation, particularly by estimating the extent of finance, 
technology transfer and capacity-building required; emphasizing the need to scale up means 
of implementation support for NDC implementation, particularly for developing countries; 
and  highlighting  efforts  to  invest  in  research  into  and  the  development  of  low-carbon 
technologies and provide financial support to and share knowledge and technical expertise 
with developing countries in this regard. 

22 

 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

96.  Overall, 14 per cent of Parties mentioned efforts to avert, minimize and address loss 
and damage associated with climate change impact, 22 per cent of which mentioned that their 
NDCs  include  targets  relevant  to  addressing  loss  and  damage.  Parties  emphasized  the 
incorporation  of  considerations  related  to  addressing  loss  and  damage  into  adaptation 
priorities, and international cooperation and means of implementation support needed to take 
action in this regard.  

97.  Response measures were reported by 13 per cent of Parties and include assessing and 
analysing the impacts of response measures; identifying opportunities for climate  policies 
and  investments  to  promote  economic  diversification  and  socioeconomic  development, 
particularly during the transition away from fossil fuels; and minimizing negative impacts of 
response  measures  and  directing  the  benefits  of  clean  energy,  job  creation  and  other 
investments towards communities and workers vulnerable in the energy transition and the 
transition to a net zero economy. 

98.  A total of 17 per cent of Parties referred to international cooperation in the context of 
responding to the outcomes of the GST, expressing support for multilateral initiatives and 
forums  on  climate  action,  the  sharing  of  experience  through  international  dialogues,  the 
promotion of a supportive and open international economic system that enables countries to 
better  address  climate  change,  and  the  mobilization  of  means  of  implementation  through 
international cooperation. 

I.  Just transition 

99.  A total of 70 per cent of Parties explicitly referred to just transition or used similar 
terms such as “fair transition” or just development pathways in their NDCs. Most of these 
Parties further elaborated on these concepts and/or specific areas of priority for addressing 
just  transition:  they  mentioned,  for  example,  ‘leaving  no  one  behind’;  social  protection, 
inclusion,  justice  and  equity;  human  rights,  Indigenous  People’s  rights,  rights  of  future 
generations and  labour rights; education and participation; reskilling and upskilling, skills 
development  and  training;  gender  equality  and  responsiveness;  poverty  reduction  and 
eradication; health; sustainable development; decent, clean energy, sustainable, green jobs; 
the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities; promoting access to sustainable, 
clean  and  affordable  electricity;  circular  economy;  and  protecting  and  empowering 
vulnerable groups. Of the Parties that explicitly referred to just transition or similar terms, 56 
per cent included chapters or subchapters on just transition in their NDCs; while 16 per cent 
of Parties indicated that just transition principles were specifically integrated into the NDC 
preparation process. 

100.  A  total  of  28  per  cent  of  Parties  included  direct references  to  just  transition  in  the 
context of detailing how their NDC preparation was informed by the outcomes of the first 
GST. A total of 61 per cent of these Parties referred specifically to transitioning away from 
fossil fuels in energy systems in a just, orderly and equitable manner consistently with the 
language used in decision 1/CMA.5. 

101.  Most of the 30 per cent of Parties that did not explicitly refer to just transition or use 
a  similar  term  in  their  NDCs  mentioned  concepts  that  are  broadly  associated  with  just 
transition  and  that  have  been  used  by  Parties  that  did  include  explicit  references  to  just 
transition to substantiate the reference. Examples include reference to economic and social 
resilience, protection of vulnerable groups, gender equality and responsiveness, human rights, 
sustainable development, social inclusion and participation, poverty eradication, managing 
distributional 
fair  and  equitable  approaches,  and 
intergenerational equity. 

impacts  of  climate  policies, 

102.  Parties  highlighted  a  broad  range  of  stakeholders  alongside  references  to  just 
transition and associated terms and concepts. In some instances, these references were in the 
context of aligning just transition pathways with recognition of the differentiated impacts of 
climate change on children, women, the elderly, persons with disabilities, young people and 
other  social  groups.  In  other  cases,  references  to  specific  stakeholder  groups  were  in  the 
context of identifying target groups for NDC implementation, including vulnerable groups, 
communities (rural, local, outer island), the workforce and informal workers, women, youth, 

23 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

children, persons with disabilities, Indigenous Peoples, underrepresented and marginalized 
groups, companies, industries and enterprises. 

103.  The  Parties  that  referenced  just  transition  explicitly  did  so  across  chapters  of  their 
NDCs related to mitigation (16 per cent of Parties) and adaptation (8 per cent of Parties). 
Some  23  per  cent  of  Parties  referred  to  just  transition  in  the  context  of  means  of 
implementation, with references most commonly linked to finance but also included in the 
context  of  technology  transfer  and  capacity-building,  as  well  as  broader  references  to 
international support and cooperation.  

104.  The references to just transition in the mitigation chapter or subchapters of the NDCs 
address a range of issues, including developing energy transition plans, adopting a holistic 
multi-sector approach to just transitions, just transition principles for guiding implementation, 
implementing  mitigation measures  and related  investments  and  awareness-raising  needed, 
investments  in  renewable  energy  capacity,  energy  efficiency  and  sustainable  heating, 
transitioning away from fossil fuels, energy affordability, eliminating inefficient fossil fuel 
subsidies,  and  links  between  just  transitions  and  limiting  global  warming  to  1.5  °C. 
References  to  just  transition  in  the  adaptation  chapter  or  subchapters  of  the  NDCs  were 
included  in  the  context  of  integrating  just  transition  principles  into  the  measurement 
adaptation  progress  and  outcomes,  national  adaptation  guidelines  and  objectives,  social 
protection,  training  initiatives  and  skills  development  programmes,  just  transition  impact 
assessments, social dialogue and meaningful participation. References to just transition in the 
context of means of implementation were included, for example, in addressing financing and 
international support for just transition, capacity-building for integrating new technologies 
into  economies  and  societies,  support  for  transformation  of  the  energy  sector,  poverty 
eradication, hunger and  inequality, and scaling up new  and additional grant-based, highly 
concessional finance and other non-debt instruments. 

105. 
In  referencing  just  transition,  55  per  cent  of  Parties  included  details  of  initiatives 
related to implementing just transition pathways, ranging from broad statements such as an 
intention  to  integrate  just  transition  principles  into  policies  and  measures  guiding 
decarbonization,  to  more  specific  steps  for  integrating  just  transition  considerations  into 
targeted national policies, legislation, plans, frameworks and strategies (e.g. skills and jobs 
strategies;  legislation  promoting  accountability  for,  transparency  of  and  stakeholder 
engagement  in  climate  action).  Many  of  the  specific  initiatives  related  to  implementation 
strategies in the context of adaptation, while some were focused on mitigation. Moreover, 5 
per  cent  of  Parties  outlined  details  of  just  transition  bodies  to  support  integrating  just 
transition considerations into NDC implementation, and 8 per cent of Parties indicated that 
NDC  implementation  plans  may  include  indicators  for  tracking  implementation  of  just 
transition principles and related issues.  

J.  Voluntary cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement 

106.  A  total  of  89  per  cent  of  Parties,  in  comparison  with  64  per  cent  in  their  previous 
NDCs,  communicated  that  they  plan  to  or  will  possibly  use  at  least  one  of  the  scopes  of 
voluntary cooperation in implementing their NDCs (see figure 5) by directly or indirectly 
referring to the scopes in their NDCs: general use of voluntary cooperation under Article 6 
of the Paris Agreement; use of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes under Article 
6, including through cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, or under 
the  mechanism  established  by  Article  6,  paragraph  4;  and  use  of  non-market  approaches 
under Article 6, paragraph 8. 

24 

 
 
 
Figure 5 
Shares of Parties indicating in their nationally determined contributions the intention to use or possibility  
of using specific scopes of voluntary cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement  

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

89%

30%

59%

64%

31%

33%

16%

9%

6%

Previous
NDCs

New
NDCs

Previous
NDCs

72%

22%

50%

63%

31%

31%

13%

5%
8%

Previous
NDCs

New
NDCs

Previous
NDCs

20%

9%

11%

New
NDCs

17%

8%

9%

New
NDCs

At least one scope of use

Voluntary cooperation (Article
6 general)

Internationally transferred
mitigation outcomes
(Article 6.2 and/or Article 6.4)

Non-market approaches
(Article 6.8)

Intention to use

Possibility of using

Note: The sums of the shares of Parties intending to use and possibly using voluntary cooperation for previous NDCs and 

internationally transferred mitigation outcomes for previous NDCs do not match the totals presented owing to rounding. 

107.  A total of 17 per cent of Parties mentioned the general use of voluntary cooperation 
under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, compared with 16 per cent in their previous NDCs; 
72  per  cent  referenced  planned  or  possible  use  of  internationally  transferred  mitigation 
outcomes, including through cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, or 
under  the  mechanism  established  by  Article  6,  paragraph  4,  compared  with  63  per  cent 
previously; and 20 per cent referred to the planned or possible use of non-market approaches, 
compared with 13 per cent previously.  

108.  A total of 38 per cent of Parties, compared with 27 per cent in their previous NDCs, 
defined their approach to the use of voluntary cooperation: 5 per cent stated that they will use 
voluntary cooperation as a means of achieving conditional elements of their mitigation targets; 
3  per  cent  have  set  quantitative  goals  for  the  extent  of  use  of  voluntary  cooperation  for 
achieving their mitigation targets; and 36 per cent highlighted the importance of their use of 
voluntary  cooperation  for  achieving  their  mitigation  targets  in  a  manner  consistent  with 
guidance adopted by the CMA, such as applying robust accounting to avoid double counting, 
reporting  in  the  BTRs,  ensuring  environmental  integrity  and  promoting  sustainable 
development. 

109.  Notably, 34 per cent of Parties indicated that they plan to develop, are developing or 
have  already  developed  the  legal  and  regulatory  arrangements,  policy  frameworks  or 
operational manuals, as well as established, for example, the institutional structures, approval 
and authorization processes and carbon registries, necessary to facilitate the implementation 
of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. 

K.  Forests  

110.  Reducing emissions from forests and land-use change and simultaneously enhancing 
removals from forests was mentioned in NDCs as a key mitigation option, with 84 per cent 
of Parties including the LULUCF sector in their economy-wide mitigation target. A total of 
53 per cent of Parties defined a separate LULUCF-specific target, such as increasing carbon 

25 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

sequestration  in  the  LULUCF  sector  or  increasing  woodland  and  tree  canopy  cover  by  a 
certain  percentage.  Moreover,  14  per  cent  indicated  that  the  outcomes  of  the  first  GST 
informed  their  increased  ambition  with  regard  to  forests,  with  several  mentioning  the 
possibility  of  raising  mitigation  ambition  further,  subject  to  the  availability  of  financial 
resources, capacity-building and technology transfer.  

111.  Compared with their previous NDCs, more Parties included in their new NDCs forest-
related climate action expected to contribute to achieving the NDCs (see figure 6). A total of 
69 per cent  mentioned afforestation and reforestation through, for example, establishment 
and  management  of  forest  plantations,  rehabilitation  of  native  species  and  integrated 
ecosystem management, and 56 per cent  reported sustainable forest management,  such as 
strengthening  forest-control  systems,  enhancing  varieties  of  tree  species  and  thinning 
encroacher bushes to promote biomass use. Parties emphasized that such action helps to both 
maintain and enhance forest carbon stocks and generates employment opportunities. 

112.  Globally, deforestation and forest degradation are the main sources of GHG emissions 
in  the  LULUCF  sector.  Of  the  Parties,  27  per  cent  described  measures  for  reducing 
deforestation,  with  several  selecting  quantitative  non-GHG  indicators  to  determine  a 
measure’s success such as deforestation rate and area of natural forest burned, while 22 per 
cent outlined actions for reducing forest degradation. Further, 25 per cent of Parties reported 
on activities designed to address wildfires and pest or disease outbreaks, which have become 
significant drivers of deforestation and forest degradation. 

113. 
In this context, many developing country Parties that submitted new NDCs referred 
to the important role of REDD+ activities in guiding mitigation actions in the forest sector, 
with 25 per cent of developing country Parties referring to national REDD+ strategies and 
action plans for planning and coordinating forest-related mitigation actions, 29 per cent of 
developing  country  Parties  reporting  implementing  REDD+  activities  as  part  of  their 
mitigation  measures  and  13  per  cent  of  developing  country  Parties  emphasizing  the 
importance of international collaboration and results-based payments in this regard. 

114.  Further, 31 per cent of Parties reported conservation and/or restoration of high-carbon 
wetlands,  particularly  mangroves  and  peatland,  recognizing  their  high  carbon  storage 
potential.  In  addition,  23  per  cent  referred  to  agroforestry  as  part  of  their  mitigation  or 
adaptation forest-related climate actions. 

115.  A total of 38 per cent of Parties outlined forest-related climate action across specific 
policy  and  institutional  frameworks,  such  as  developing  national  policy  frameworks  and 
land-use  plans;  adopting  and  implementing  national  action  plans  for  forests,  water  and 
biodiversity; establishing a compensation payments mechanism for forest ecosystem services; 
strengthening forest governance in line with Warsaw framework for REDD+ and Article 6 
mechanism  of  the  Paris  Agreement  to  facilitate  access  to  climate  finance;  improving 
governance structures across the agriculture, forestry and natural resource sectors through 
updated  legislation  and  institutional  capacity-building;  and  promoting  integrated  and 
ecosystem-based resource management. 

116. 
In  total,  34  per  cent  of  Parties  identified  the  need  for  enhanced  forest  monitoring 
systems, citing requirements in this context for national forest inventories, traceability and 
control platforms for authorized timber production, peatland and mangrove maps, invasive 
species databases and early warning systems. In addition, 14 per cent of Parties noted the 
need for further research, including into native-species adaptability; forest fire management; 
carbon stock data by forest type and species; and methodologies more adjusted to national 
circumstances for estimating forest carbon stocks. 

26 

 
 
 
Figure 6 
Comparison of the shares of Parties that referred to forest-related climate action in 
their previous and new nationally determined contributions 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

69%

52%

56%

47%

Afforestation/reforestation

Sustainable forest management

Conservation/restoration of
wetlands

31%

22%

Reducing deforestation

Addressing wildfire, pest or
disease

Agroforestry

Implementing REDD+ activities

27%
27%

25%

23%

23%

13%

14%

14%

Reducing forest degradation

22%

19%

New NDCs

Previous NDCs

117.  A total of 25 per cent of Parties reported forest-related capacity-building programmes, 
aimed at forest-dependent communities and key stakeholders, including government officials, 
the private sector and non-governmental organizations, designed to strengthen conservation 
efforts and create opportunities for green jobs that support just transition. In addition, 19 per 
cent of Parties highlighted the potential for empowering vulnerable groups such as women, 
Indigenous Peoples and local communities in forest management with a view to promoting 
gender  equality  and  inclusive  decision-making,  enhancing  community  resilience  and 
promoting equitable benefit-sharing. 

118.  A  total  of  45  per  cent  of  Parties  clearly  identified  co-benefits  arising  from  forest-
related  mitigation  and  adaptation  actions.  Examples  are  biodiversity  conservation; 
rehabilitation  and  conservation  of  degraded public  and private  land  through  afforestation, 
reforestation  and  protection 
to  enhance  nature-  and  ecosystem-based  adaptation; 
enhancement of water and food security through forest restoration and integrated watershed 
management;  green  job  opportunities;  and  integrated  land-use  planning  compatible  with 
sustainable management of natural resources and sustainable development. 

119.  Synergies  among  the  Rio  Conventions  were  highlighted:  39  per  cent  of  Parties 
referenced linkages between forest-related climate actions and the Convention on Biological 
Diversity,  while  22  per  cent  mentioned  synergies  with  the  United  Nations  Convention  to 
Combat  Diversification.  These  Parties  emphasized  the  benefit  of  integrating  use  of 
instruments  such  as  national  biodiversity  strategies  and  action  plans  and  national  action 
programmes  with  NDC  implementation,  including  to  enhance  financial  efficiency  and 
maximize  impact.  A  total  of  22  per  cent  of  Parties  highlighted  that  forest-related  climate 
action,  such  as  afforestation  and  reforestation,  sustainable  forest  management,  forest  fire 
prevention  and  REDD+,  contributes  directly  to  achieving  the  2030  targets  under  the 
Kunming-Montreal  Global  Biodiversity  Framework and/or the  land degradation neutrality 
target. A total of 16 per cent of Parties noted that mainstreaming nature-based solutions and 
ecosystem-based  adaptation  across  the  Rio  Conventions  enhances  the  coherence  and 
effectiveness of national responses, delivering simultaneous benefits for climate adaptation, 
biodiversity conservation and land restoration. 

120.  A  total  of  27  per  cent  of  Parties  quantified  the  costs  of  implementing  their  forest-
related climate action, and 17 per cent identified a financial gap in this area and called for 
additional international funding and investments to bridge it. 

27 

 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

L.  The Ocean 

121.  Parties  reported  a  significant  increase  in  ocean-based  climate  action  in  their  new 
NDCs compared with in their previous NDCs, with an additional 39 per cent including an 
ocean-based reference in their new NDCs. Overall, 78 per cent of Parties included at least 
one explicit reference to the ocean, of which 82 per cent included ocean-based adaptation 
measures  and  54 per  cent  ocean-based  mitigation  measures.  For  the  ocean,  a  total  of  192 
adaptation measures and 55 mitigation measures were reported, along with 22 cross-cutting 
measures  (see  figure  7),  highlighting  the  type  and  spread  of  sectoral  mitigation  and 
adaptation-based measures in NDCs. 

122.  Most ocean-based adaptation and mitigation actions were noted in the form of policies, 
programmes and initiatives, with 25 quantified targets identified (19 for adaptation and 6 for 
mitigation). These targets include measurable outcomes like hectares of restored mangroves, 
increase in ocean renewable energy capacity, and reduction in marine transport emissions.  

123.  Of the Parties with an ocean-related adaptation or mitigation component of their new 
NDC,  12  per  cent  reported  progress  in  implementing  ocean-based  measures  since  their 
previous  NDC.  The  measures  where  progress  was  reported  include  strengthening  inshore 
community-based  fishery  enforcement  capacity,  enhancing  marine  scientific  research, 
decarbonizing  maritime  transport,  increasing  mangrove  sequestration,  deploying  marine 
technologies and strengthening marine conservation. A total of 16 per cent of Parties noted 
the need for robust data to track progress in implementing their ocean-related commitments, 
particularly for the ocean-based adaptation measures. 

124.  Overall,  62  ocean-based  adaptation  measures  target  coastal  resilience  through  the 
development of integrated coastal zone  management frameworks, climate-resilient coastal 
infrastructure  planning,  strengthening  coastal  and  marine  tourism  resilience,  shoreline 
restoration and marine spatial planning; 85 adaptation measures support the conservation and 
restoration  of  blue  carbon  ecosystems  in  the  form  of  nature-based  solutions  that  include 
mangrove reforestation, coral reef rehabilitation, seagrass restoration and marine protected 
areas; and 45 adaptation measures pertain to the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, aimed at 
transitioning  to  climate-resilient  fishing  techniques,  integrating  early  warning  systems, 
promoting  sustainable  aquaculture,  and  protecting  food  security  and  coastal  livelihoods 
through community-based management of fisheries. 

125.  Of the 42 per cent of Parties that reported on ocean-based mitigation measures, 19 per 
cent explicitly referenced paragraph 35 of decision 1/CMA.5 on preserving and restoring the 
ocean and coastal ecosystems and scaling up ocean-based mitigation action. Though fewer 
in  number  than  adaptation  measures,  ocean-based  mitigation  measures  show  increasing 
innovation  and  sectoral  diversity,  spanning  renewable  energy  deployment,  carbon 
sequestration and decarbonization of maritime transport and shipping. 

126.  Overall,  8  mitigation  measures  relate  to  ocean-based  renewable  energy,  including 
offshore wind, wave and tidal energy and thermal energy conversion; 22 mitigation measures 
focus  on  blue  carbon  sequestration  through  the  protection  and  restoration  of  blue  carbon 
ecosystems, with some exploring the use of marine CO2 removal technologies; 19 mitigation 
measures  target  the  decarbonization  of  maritime  transport  through  low-emission  fuels, 
energy-efficient shipping and greener port infrastructure; and 6 mitigation measures target 
the  fisheries  and  aquaculture  sectors.  Of  the  Parties  that  included  ocean-based  mitigation 
measures,  30  per  cent  detailed  projects,  partnerships  and  methodologies  for  marine  CO2 
removal. 

127.  The  22  cross-cutting  measures  aimed  at  fostering  mitigation  and  adaptation  co-
benefits  include implementation of nature-based solutions in degraded coastal zones, blue 
economy initiatives for resilient marine ecosystems and integrated tourism planning.  

128.  Means of implementing ocean-based adaptation and mitigation measures were a key 
focus of reporting in the NDCs. Overall, 28 per cent of Parties referenced science-based needs, 
including, for example, ocean monitoring, and  collection of and access to  ocean  data and 
research.  Some  30  per  cent  of  Parties  highlighted  capacity-building  needs,  including  for 
strengthening  data  collection  for  ocean  observation  and  monitoring  systems,  using 

28 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

forecasting  systems  to  assess  sea  level  rise,  deploying  ocean-based  technologies  and 
strengthening capacity of national institutions for marine management and planning. A total 
of  48 per  cent  of  Parties  reported  finance-related  needs,  of  which  46  per  cent  have  made 
conditional  commitments,  which  were  identified  particularly  by  small  island  developing 
States to implement ocean-related climate measures.  

Figure 7 
Number of ocean-based adaptation, mitigation and cross-cutting measures reported in Parties’ nationally 
determined contributions, by area of measure 

Decarbonization of maritime transport

19

Ocean-based renewable energy

Fisheries and aquaculture

8

6

45

2

Conservation and restoration of blue carbon ecosystems

22

Coastal resilience

62

Mitigation

Adaptation

Cross-cutting

85

4

16

V.  Mitigation co-benefits resulting from adaptation action 

and/or economic diversification plans 

129.  A total of 63 per cent of Parties considered mitigation co-benefits resulting from their 
adaptation  action  and/or  economic  diversification  plans.  Of  those  Parties,  48  per  cent 
considered  social  and  economic  consequences  of  response  measures  and  included  an 
economic diversification plan and/or a just transition or social pillar for designing climate 
policies. Some other Parties (17 per cent) considered positive and/or negative economic and 
social consequences of response measures without linking them to the mitigation co-benefits 
of their adaptation action and/or economic diversification plans. 

130.  Parties highlighted unequal impacts on different groups27 of society or the workforce 
as  consequences  of  response  measures,  with  impacts  on  the  workforce  being  the  most 
frequently  mentioned.  A  total  of  59  per  cent  of  Parties  plan  to  address  such  impacts  by 
considering just transition as part of their NDC implementation, such as through a green skills 
and job strategy, establishment of an authority to oversee just transition, social protection to 
safeguard  those  affected  by  the  transition,  an  initiative  to  disburse  funds  to  vulnerable 
communities, and consultations with specific groups of stakeholders. Some 27 per cent of 
Parties paid special attention to addressing the impacts of response measures on vulnerable 
groups and communities in relation to poverty, job opportunities and inequality during  the 
transition. 

131.  Of the 39 per cent of Parties that referenced economic diversification as part of their 
national development plans and climate policies to boost the country’s resilience to climate 
change  and  response  measures,  24  per  cent  linked  such  plans  to  specific  sectors  such  as 
agriculture, construction, energy, LULUCF, hospitality, industry, real estate, transport and 
waste. 

27  Such as low-income groups, women, children and youth, Indigenous Peoples and people with 

disabilities. 

29 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

VI.  Adaptation 

1. 

Scope and coverage of adaptation components 

132.  A  total  of  73  per  cent  of  Parties  included  a  distinct  adaptation  component  in  their 
NDCs. In particular, they provided information on adaptation strategies, policies and plans; 
risks  and  vulnerabilities;  sectoral  adaptation  measures;  alignment  of  adaptation  priority 
sectors  with  the  United  Arab  Emirates  Framework  for  Global  Climate  Resilience  and  the 
targets under the global goal on adaptation;28 monitoring and evaluation of adaptation; and 
synergies between adaptation and mitigation actions as well as between adaptation actions 
and environmental international policy frameworks. 

133.  The information provided illustrates how Parties have advanced adaptation since their 
previous NDCs. For example, there has been an increase in the share of NDCs that: 

(a) 

Provide  more  detailed  information  on  institutional  arrangements  and  legal 
frameworks  for  adaptation,  describing  in  more  detail  efforts  to  integrate  adaptation  into 
national and subnational policies and strategies (by 2 per cent); 

(b)  Describe  the  status  of  the  NAP  process  and  demonstrate  how  the  NAP  was 

established as the main national instrument for adaptation (by 6 per cent);  

(c) 

Include time-bound quantified adaptation targets for monitoring the progress 
of  adaptation  measures  and  identify  the  adaptation  indicators  intended  to  be  used  for 
monitoring progress (by 21 per cent);  

(d) 

Identify synergies and co-benefits between adaptation and mitigation actions 
(by 28 per cent) as well as linkages between adaptation and efforts towards achieving the 
SDGs (by 23 per cent). 

2. 

Impacts, risks and vulnerabilities 

134.  The  adaptation  components  describe  key  climatic-impact  drivers,  referring  in 
particular  to  temperature  increase,  precipitation  changes,  sea  level  rise,  increases  in 
frequency or intensity of drought, flooding, heatwaves, heavy rainfall, coastal erosion and 
flooding,  saltwater  intrusion,  fires,  extreme  storms  and  tropical  cyclones,  as  well  as 
landslides and increases in ocean acidification, ocean temperature and thawing glacier, snow 
and permafrost. All Parties described how these climatic-impact drivers affect various sectors 
(see figure 8). Of particular concern are food security and nutrition (covering the agriculture, 
livestock and fisheries sectors), water resources, health, terrestrial ecosystems, key economic 
sectors (e.g. infrastructure, energy, transport, tourism and cultural heritage), urban and rural 
areas,  and  poverty  and  livelihoods.  A  total  of  21  per  cent  of  Parties  identified  the 
transboundary risks to which their water resources, terrestrial ecosystems, energy systems 
and coastal areas are exposed, such as flooding, drought, and thawing glacier and snow. 

28  Contained in decision 1/CMA.5, paras. 9–10. 

30 

 
 
 
Figure 8 
Extent to which climatic-impact drivers affect various sectors, as reported in Parties’ nationally determined 
contributions 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Food security and nutrition

16%

4%

19%

12%

8%

12%

9%

11%

10%

Water resources

10%

1%

24%

17%

9%

18%

7%

14%

Health

17%

18%

15%

8%

3%

20%

12%

6%

1%

Terrestrial ecosystems

20%

8%

24%

13%

6%

12%

4%

9%

3%

Ocean ecosystems

3%

11%

36%

50%

Coastal and low-lying areas

4%

2%

11%

6%

6%

7%

15%

41%

9%

Urban and rural areas

6%

10%

8%

6%

11%

26%

14%

19%

Energy

10%

18%

18%

13%

3%

18%

18%

5%

Infrastructure

7%

5%

12%

5%

9%

24%

19%

16%

2%

Transport

5%

8%

3%

10%

25%

30%

15%

Tourism

8%

8%

11%

8%

6%

6%

19%

19%

14%

Cultural heritage

13%

8%

8%

17%

13%

8%

29%

4%

Poverty and livelihoods

2%

9%

22%

4%

7%

22%

18%

16%

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Percentage of Parties identifing climatic-impact drivers within each sector

Mean air temperature
Droughts
Heavy precipitation
Tropical cyclones and extreme winds

Temperature extemes
Mean precipitation
Floods
Relative sea level

135. 
In total, 89 per cent of Parties, compared with 64 per cent in their previous NDCs, 
highlighted that children and youth, women, people with disabilities, the elderly, Indigenous 
Peoples and local communities, rural and urban populations, and low-income and displaced 
populations are particularly vulnerable to climate change. Specifically, 53 per cent of Parties 
emphasized the vulnerability of populations living in coastal areas, on islands, near rivers, in 
mountainous areas and in or near forests, while 91 per cent highlighted geographical location 
or characteristics, dependence on climate-sensitive sectors, economic challenges and poverty, 
reliance  on  natural  resources,  demographic  challenges,  the  coronavirus  disease  2019 
pandemic, inequality, inadequate infrastructure, and political instability as factors affecting 
vulnerability to climate change impacts.  

31 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

3.  Enhancing adaptation-related research for policymaking 

136.  All Parties that provided an adaptation component in their NDCs considered how to 
improve  adaptation-relevant  research,  data,  information  and  monitoring,  and  ensure  that 
adaptation efforts are informed by science, for example through data-collection programmes, 
national databases on impacts, monitoring systems, observation networks, research centres, 
strengthened  climate  services,  climate  and  risk  modelling,  multi-scale  risk  maps 
incorporating climate data and scenarios, and international research cooperation. 

4.  National adaptation plans and policy frameworks 

137.  The  share  of  Parties  that  described  in  their  adaptation  component  the  process  for 
formulating and implementing their NAP and its status increased from  77 per cent for the 
previous NDCs to 83 per cent for the new NDCs. While 47 per cent of Parties reported in 
their new NDCs that they have developed a NAP, 36 per cent indicated their intention to do 
so, including a timeline for completion or update and/or implementation. In addition, 70 per 
cent of Parties outlined links between their NAP and NDC, including how the NAP provided 
the basis for the adaptation component, how both build on the same vulnerability assessment, 
and how the NAP can provide a monitoring and evaluation framework for the NDC. 

138. 
In addition, all Parties with an adaptation component in their NDCs described policy 
frameworks relevant to adaptation, including information on how such frameworks provide 
a basis for adaptation efforts and how adaptation is integrated into and strengthened under 
other frameworks, such as adaptation-specific frameworks, national climate plans, national 
development plans, local government or community-level plans, sectoral plans relevant to 
adaptation  priorities,  disaster  risk  management  strategies,  regional  and  transboundary 
strategies,  and  UNFCCC  frameworks  (e.g.  national  adaptation  programmes  of  action  and 
technology  needs  assessments).  Some  9  per  cent  of  Parties  highlighted  the  inclusion  of 
adaptation considerations in their national constitution. 

5.  Adaptation priorities 

139.  Parties provided a wide range of information on adaptation in various priority areas 
and sectors (see figure 9). The new NDCs illustrate a focus on food security and nutrition, 
water  resources,  health,  terrestrial  ecosystems,  key  economic  sectors  and  disaster  risk 
management,  followed by urban  and rural  areas, ocean ecosystems, coastal and low-lying 
areas,  poverty  and  livelihoods,  and  education  (see  additional  information  from  adaptation 
components of NDCs29). 

29  Available at https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/nationally-determined-

contributions-ndcs/2025-ndc-synthesis-report.  

32 

 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 
Share of adaptation components of nationally determined contributions referring to specific adaptation priority 
areas and sectors 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

140.  A total of 40 per cent of Parties described how their adaptation strategies and policies, 
including the adaptation component of the NDCs, are guided by the provisions of the United 
Arab  Emirates  Framework  for  Global  Climate  Resilience.  Of  those  Parties,  23  per  cent 
described  how  the  measures  in  sectors  prioritized  for  adaptation  planning  align  with  or 
contribute to the achievement of the targets under the global goal on adaptation. 

141. 
In total, 53 per cent of Parties, compared with 36 per cent in their previous NDCs, 
referred  to  the  importance  of  transformational  adaptation,  including  measures  related  to 
agriculture,  fisheries  and  livestock,  policy  and  governance,  terrestrial  ecosystems,  urban 
areas,  infrastructure  and  energy.  The  aim  of  these  measures  is  to  promote  technological 
innovation  and  policy  or  legal  reform,  build  institutional  capacity  for  transformational 
adaptation, create new financing mechanisms and influence the behavioural change needed 
for transformational adaptation. The importance of promoting the inclusion of children and 
youth in, as well as gender-inclusive approaches to, transformational adaptation, and the need 
for  a  deeper  understanding  of  fairness  and  just  transition  in  transformational  adaptation, 
particularly with regard to Indigenous Peoples and local communities, were also highlighted. 

33 

 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

6.  Monitoring and evaluation  

142. 
In the adaptation component, 45 per cent of Parties, compared with 36 per cent in their 
previous  NDCs,  described  efforts  undertaken  previously  or  ongoing  efforts  to  enhance 
monitoring and evaluation of adaptation. Such efforts include reviewing and consolidating 
monitoring  and  evaluation  frameworks  and  tools,  tracking  progress  in  implementing  and 
achieving NDC targets, developing methods for evaluating the effectiveness of adaptation 
actions, strengthening climate transparency systems such as the ETF, improving institutional 
arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, aligning adaptation indicators with the SDGs 
and other international frameworks, and  improving inclusivity by collecting disaggregated 
data on gender, children and youth, Indigenous Peoples and local communities, people with 
disabilities and the elderly. Additionally, 62 per cent of Parties identified and described their 
intention to apply time-bound quantified adaptation targets for monitoring the progress of 
adaptation  measures,  while  28  per  cent reported  developing  the  adaptation  indicators  that 
they intend to use for monitoring progress. 

7. 

Synergies with mitigation and sustainable development 

143.  The share of Parties that identified in their adaptation component synergies between 
adaptation and mitigation, particularly in the terrestrial and ocean ecosystems, food security 
and nutrition, water resources and health sectors, increased from 53 per cent in the previous 
NDCs  to  81  per  cent  in  the  new  NDCs  (mitigation  co-benefits  of  adaptation  actions  are 
covered  in  chap.  V  above).  Examples  of  synergies  include  increasing  the  resilience  of 
mangroves and seagrasses (nature-based solutions) to reduce coastal flooding and increase 
carbon sequestration; improving forest carbon stock through restoration, afforestation and 
conservation  of  native  forest  species;  implementing  climate-smart  agriculture  in  order  to 
diversify crops, foster soil conservation and increase carbon sequestration; improving water 
reservoirs and pumped storage schemes to ensure water security; and reducing respiratory 
diseases through reduced use of fossil fuels (pollution).  

144.  A total of 68 per cent of Parties described how adaptation actions relate to sustainable 
development  frameworks,  describing  the  overall  linkages  and  synergies  between  their 
adaptation  efforts  and  efforts  towards  the  SDGs;  and  identifying  the  essential  role  of 
adaptation in the achievement of SDGs, as well as the role of sustainable development in 
successful  adaptation.  Further,  36  per  cent  of  Parties  specified  how  adaptation  in  specific 
priority areas contributes to achieving individual SDGs. Figure 10 provides an overview of 
the specific synergies identified between sectoral adaptation efforts and efforts towards the 
SDGs. 

34 

 
 
 
Figure 10 
Synergies between efforts in adaptation priority sectors and efforts towards the Sustainable Development Goals 
identified in nationally determined contributions  

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Note: The shading reflects how frequently linkages were identified by Parties: the darker the shading, the more frequently linkages 

were identified. 

8.  Loss and damage associated with climate change impacts 

145.  A total of 94 per cent of Parties with an adaptation component referred to loss and 
damage,  outlining  the  associated  risks  and  impacts  in  various  key  sectors  and  describing 
planned  or  implemented  measures  to  address  them,  compared  with  68  per  cent  in  their 
previous  NDCs  (see  figure  11).  They  also  considered  the  financial  and  capacity-building 
needs and commitments associated with addressing loss and damage.  

146.  Overall, 79 per cent of Parties, compared with 45 per cent in their previous NDCs, 
reported experiencing loss and damage, for example owing to the increasing frequency and 
intensity of extreme weather events such as drought, floods and tropical cyclones, as well as 
slow-onset  events  such  as  rising  sea  levels,  glacier  retreat,  and  ocean  warming  and 
acidification. Both economic and non-economic loss and damage was reported. Economic 
loss  and  damage  was  typically  expressed  as  annual  monetary  damage  or  loss  in  gross 
domestic product relating to the sectors of food security and nutrition, infrastructure, ocean 
and terrestrial ecosystems, and water resources, while non-economic loss and damage was 
reported in relation to cultural heritage values (both tangible and intangible), loss of human 
life, and community displacement or climate-led migration. In addition, 55 per cent of Parties, 
up from 28 per cent in their previous NDCs, reported projected loss and damage, namely 
from  drought,  increasing  temperature,  rising  sea  levels  and  ocean  warming,  in  relation to 
food security and nutrition, coastal and low-lying areas and ocean ecosystems. 

147.  A total of 72 per cent of Parties, compared with 45 per cent in their previous NDCs, 
provided information on their planned actions to avert, minimize or address loss and damage, 
particularly  in  sectors  related  to  disaster  risk  management,  adaptation  policy  frameworks, 
food security and nutrition, health, infrastructure and cultural heritage. Actions to avert loss 
and damage include introducing insurance schemes related to food security and nutrition, and 

35 

Adaptation priority sectorFood security and nutritionWater resourcesHealthTerrestrial ecosystemsKey economic sectors and servicesDisaster risk managementUrban and rural areasOcean ecosystemsCoastal and low-lying areasPoverty and livelihoodsEducationSDG 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

developing multi-hazard early warning systems for coastal areas and the health sector, while 
actions  to  minimize  loss  and  damage  include  providing  community  relocation  or 
displacement  assistance,  constructing  flood-resistant  infrastructure  and  developing  heat-
resilient livestock breeds. Further, actions to address loss and damage include developing a 
national assessment of loss and damage needs, promoting research into economic and non-
economic  loss  and  damage,  implementing  capacity-building  programmes  for  adaptation 
planning  at  the  sectoral  level,  and  strengthening  institutional  frameworks  and governance 
mechanisms designed to operationalize international funding mechanisms related to loss and 
damage. 

148.  Compared with 4 per cent in their previous NDCs, 26 per cent of Parties documented 
efforts undertaken to reduce loss and damage, which were primarily in the form of improving 
institutional and technical capacities by, for example, formulating a national loss and damage 
framework,  integrating  loss  and  damage  considerations  into  national  monitoring  and 
evaluation  systems,  developing  a  cultural  heritage  adaptation  plan  through  community 
consultations,  providing  training  on  economic  and  non-economic  loss  and  damage  in key 
sectors, ensuring emergency water supplies during extended drought periods, and providing 
temporary shelter and financial aid for disaster recovery. 

Figure 11 
Overview of references to loss and damage in adaptation components of nationally 
determined contributions 

Reference to loss and damage

Observed loss and damage

Projected loss and damage

Measures undertaken to avert, minimize or
address loss and damage

Measures planned to avert, minimize or
address loss and damage

94%

68%

79%

45%

55%

28%

26%

4%

72%

45%

New NDCs

Previous NDCs

VII.  Mitigation 

A.  Targets 

149.  All Parties provided information on mitigation targets, including absolute emission 
reduction  targets,30 emission  peaking  targets, 31 carbon  budget  targets,32 relative  targets  for 
reducing emissions below ‘business as usual’ level by a specified year and emission intensity 
targets,33 strategies, policies, plans and actions for low-emission development, and mitigation 
co-benefits resulting from their adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans (see 
figure 12 and chap. V above).34 

30  Targets expressed as an emission reduction from the level in a specified base year. 
31  Targets for a year or time frame in which emissions are expected to peak or reach a maximum level of 

absolute emissions. 

32  Targets to limit overall GHGs to be emitted over a specified period of time (e.g. between 2021 and 

2030). 

33  Targets for reducing specific GHG emissions per unit of gross domestic product relative to a base-

year (e.g. 1990) level. 

34  Mitigation co-benefits are mostly communicated in combination with other targets. 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12 
Types of mitigation target and share of Parties that communicated them in nationally 
determined contributions 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Policies and Measures

Emission Intensity

Carbon Budget

Peaking

11%
5%

2%
2%

5%
3%

3%
5%

Emission reduction below ‘business as usual’

Absolute emission reduction

Absolute economy-wide emission reduction

47%
48%

38%

45%

34%

42%

Economy-wide

81%

89%

Previous NDCs

Latest NDCs

Note: Policies and measures refers to strategies, policies, plans and actions for low-emission development. 

150.  The  share  of  Parties  that  came  forward  with  absolute  economy-wide  emission 
reduction targets increased to 42 per cent in the new NDCs from 34 per cent in the previous 
NDCs,  with  27  per  cent  of  Parties  communicating  economy-wide  absolute  emission 
reduction  targets  covering  all  GHGs,  sectors  and  categories  of  emissions  and  removals, 
compared with 23 per cent in their previous NDCs. 

1.  Time frames and/or periods of implementation 

151.  All  Parties  communicated  a  target  year  for  their  mitigation  targets,  expressing  a 
single-year target, a multi-year target (i.e. for a period of consecutive years) or multiple target 
years (i.e. several non-consecutive target years) depending on the target. Of the Parties, 73 
per cent communicated a single-year target for 2035 and 11 per cent for 2030, while 14 per 
cent communicated multiple target years, including when target years were associated with 
the implementation of different policies and measures. Other Parties (17 per cent) indicated 
having a multi-year target for NDC implementation.  

152. 
In addition to communicating information on mitigation targets or plans for the near 
to medium term, 70 per cent of Parties provided information on long-term mitigation visions, 
strategies or targets for up to and beyond 2050 that either have already been formulated or 
are under preparation as part of their LT-LEDS,35 often including net zero, carbon neutrality 
and  GHG  neutrality  targets.  They  indicated  that  the  mitigation  targets  in  their  NDCs  are 
aligned with their LT-LEDS in line with paragraph 40 of decision 1/CMA.5. 

2. 

Scope and coverage 

153.  A total of 89 per cent of Parties have economy-wide NDCs, with 84 per cent covering 
all sectors defined in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines (see figures 12 and 13), compared with 81 
and  71  per  cent  respectively  in  their  previous  NDCs.  In  addition,  6  per  cent  of  Parties 
provided information on the coverage of sectors of national importance, which are often a 
subset of one or more IPCC sectors, such as shipping and aviation, cooling, food production, 
transport, mining and buildings, while others mentioned specific carbon pools, including the 
ocean and blue carbon. 

35  As at 30 September 2025, 79 LT-LEDS had been communicated, representing 86 Parties.  

37 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

154.  A  total  of  30  per  cent  of  Parties  covered  all  GHGs  defined  in  the  2006  IPCC 
Guidelines (see figure 14), compared with 25 per cent in their previous NDCs. In addition to 
those  GHGs,  17  per  cent  of  Parties  included  additional  gases  and  emissions,  including 
emissions from short-lived climate pollutants, such as black carbon, sulfur dioxide and non-
methane volatile organic compounds. 

Figure 13 
Sectors covered by Parties that communicated them in nationally determined 
contributions 

Energy

IPPU

Agriculture

LULUCF

Waste

100%

100%

70%

84%

84%

92%

83%

88%

84%

92%

Previous NDCs

New NDCs

Figure 14 
Greenhouse gases covered by Parties that communicated them in nationally 
determined contributions 

100%
100%

95%

100%

91%

97%

CO₂

CH₄

N₂O

HFCs

PFCs

SF₆

NF₃

58%

66%

31%

38%

36%
36%

25%

30%

SLCPs

19%

17%

Previous NDCs

New NDCs

38 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

155.  A  total  of  94  per  cent  of  Parties  provided  information  on how  they  are  striving  to 
include all categories of anthropogenic emissions and removals in their NDCs over time, as 
well as explanations for the exclusion of any categories: 48 per cent stated that they already 
have economy-wide NDCs including all sectors and GHGs, while 41 per cent explained why 
certain sectors and/or gases had been excluded, such as owing to categories being negligible 
or insignificant, data unavailability or inaccuracy, and lack of technical capacity. 

3.  Greenhouse gas emission estimates taking into account implementation of the new 

nationally determined contributions 

156.  Total GHG emission levels resulting from the implementation of Parties’ new NDCs 
are projected to be around 13.9 (13.3–14.6)Gt CO2 eq in 2030 and around 13.0 (12.0–13.9) 
Gt CO2 eq in 203536 for the Parties that submitted the NDCs (see figure 15). 

157. 
In  comparison  with  the  GHG  emission  levels  reported  in  those  Parties’  previous 
NDCs, the new NDCs are estimated to result in emission levels for the Parties in 2035 that 
are 6 per cent (0.8 Gt CO2 eq) below the 2030 level reported in the previous NDCs. When 
looking  exclusively  at  the  2030  level,  the  projected  emission  levels  do  not  change 
substantially between the new and previous NDCs as the new NDCs predominantly focus on 
2035. 

158.  A  total  of  88  per  cent  of  Parties  included  unconditional  elements  and  67  per  cent 
included additional, more ambitious conditional elements, implementation of which depends 
mostly on access to enhanced financial resources, technology transfer, technical cooperation 
and  capacity-building  support;  availability  of  market-based  mechanisms;  an  international 
system that facilitates NDC implementation and sustainable development; and the absorptive 
capacity of forests and other ecosystems. Compared with  their previous NDCs, 5 per cent 
fewer Parties included unconditional elements in their new NDCs. 

159.  Total GHG emission levels resulting from  the implementation of the unconditional 
elements of the new NDCs are estimated to be 14.5 (14.4–14.6) Gt CO2 eq in 2030 and 13.6 
(13.3–13.9) Gt CO2 eq in 2035 for the relevant group of Parties. On the other hand, assuming 
full  implementation  of  all  new  NDCs,  including  all  conditional  elements,  those  emission 
levels are estimated to be lower in 2030, at 13.4 (13.3–13.5) Gt CO2 eq, and even lower in 
2035, at 12.3 (12.0–12.7) Gt CO2 eq (see figure 15). 

Figure 15 
Projected range of greenhouse gas emission levels for the Parties that have submitted 2035 targets 
according to their new nationally determined contributions

Note: NDC targets for 2030 as at December 2023 and September 2025 imply substantially lower emissions 

compared with the levels implied in the INDCs as at April 2016. For the Parties that submitted new NDCs, 
implementation of unconditional elements (top lighter blue band) implies a strong emission reduction by 2035 below 

36  This report includes GHG emission estimates with and without LULUCF emissions. If not otherwise 
stated, total GHG emissions are presented excluding LULUCF, and emissions are quantified for the 
58 Parties that submitted new NDCs with targets for 2035. A triplet of emission levels indicates the 
best-estimate and the min-max projection range arising from ranges in NDC targets, and uncertainties 
in the quantification. If not otherwise stated, the full range spans both high and low quantifications of 
conditional and unconditional targets. 

39 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

the 2030 level. If NDCs are fully implemented (including all conditional elements), an even stronger emission 
reduction is projected from today to 2035 (bottom darker blue band). 

4.  Quantifiable information on the reference point (including, as appropriate, a base 

year) 

160.  Overall, 98 per cent of Parties provided information on the reference year, base year, 
reference period or other starting point for measuring progress towards the target, with  16 
per cent selecting 1990 and 64 per cent selecting a year between 2000 and 2020. Of the Parties 
that  provided  information  on  the  starting  point  for  measuring  progress,  47  per  cent  are 
measuring achievement of their targets against a base-year level; 17 per cent have chosen to 
measure progress in terms of a deviation from a level in the target year, with most selecting 
2030; and 36 per cent provided a reference period. 

161.  A total of 97 per cent of Parties provided information on the sources of the emission 
data used for quantifying the reference point, including national inventory reports, biennial 
reports,  biennial  update  reports  and/or  national  communications.  Other  sources  of 
information identified were national documents and statistics, such as sector activity reports; 
national  development  plans  and/or  strategies;  sustainable  development  plans;  economic 
development  projections;  national  climate  change  plans;  energy  master  plans;  national 
statistics on economy, energy and/or trade; waste management strategies; national resource 
plans; energy road maps; national forest reports; and socioeconomic forecasts. 

162.  Most  Parties  that  included  strategies,  plans  and  actions  as  referred  to  in  Article  4, 
paragraph 6, of the Paris Agreement provided other information for clarification, including 
on expected levels of emission reduction or prevention, increased forest coverage, reduction 
of deforestation, energy efficiency targets, renewable energy share or other non-GHG policy 
targets. 

163.  A total of 94 per cent of Parties presented information on the  circumstances under 
which  they  update  the  values  of  their  reference  indicators,  such  as  owing  to  significant 
changes in specific financial, economic, technological and/or political conditions, or impacts 
of  extreme  natural  disasters;  owing  to  the  scale  of  access  to  support  and  other  means  of 
implementation,  expected  improvements  or  modifications  to  activity  data,  variables  or 
methodologies used in estimating national emissions, baselines or projections; or to reflect 
the actual situation during the implementation period. 

5.  Assumptions and methodological approaches, including for estimating and accounting 

for anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and, as appropriate, removals 

(a) 

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change methodologies and metrics 

164.  Of  the  95  per  cent  of  Parties  that  communicated  information  on  assumptions  and 
approaches to be used in accounting for anthropogenic GHG emissions and, as appropriate, 
removals, corresponding to their NDCs, 87 per cent referred to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, 
while 5 per cent referred to the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories.  

165.  Some 33 per cent also mentioned the 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines 
for  National  Greenhouse  Gas  Inventories,  the  IPCC  Good  Practice  Guidance  and 
Uncertainty  Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and/or the IPCC  Good 
Practice Guidance for Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry. In addition, 39 per cent of 
Parties referred to the methods and procedures outlined in the 2013 Revised Supplementary 
Methods  and  Good  Practice  Guidance  Arising  from  the  Kyoto  Protocol  and  the  2013 
Supplement  to  the  2006  IPCC  Guidelines  for  National  Greenhouse  Gas  Inventories: 
Wetlands. 

166.  With regard to metrics, 72 per cent of Parties provided information, all of which was 
based on global warming potential values over a 100-year time-horizon. Of these, 75 per cent 
used values from the AR5, 4 per cent values from the AR4 and 6 per cent values from the 
AR2. 

40 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

(b)  Assumptions and methodological approaches 

167.  A total of 48 per cent of Parties expressed mitigation targets as a deviation from a 
‘business  as  usual’  level,  mainly  providing  information  on  quantitative  baselines  and 
mitigation scenarios such as baselines and projections based on historical data and trends in 
emissions and economic parameters.  

168.  Furthermore,  13  per  cent  of Parties  communicated  additional  information  on other 
approaches used for estimating sector- or activity-specific emissions or baselines, including 
using regional data sources for downscaling data or generating data at the national level, and 
calculation  tools  or  approaches  for  estimating  short-lived  climate  pollutants  or  precursor 
emissions. Meanwhile, 28 per cent of Parties mentioned using specific modelling tools for 
estimating their emissions or baselines. 

169. 
In total, 83 per cent of Parties provided more detailed information than previously on 
the  assumptions,  methodological  approaches  and  procedures  used  for  developing  their 
baselines or mitigation scenarios. 

(c)  Land use, land-use change and forestry 

170.  A total of 28 per cent of Parties clarified how they intend to address emissions and 
subsequent  removals  due  to  natural  disturbances  on  managed  land  if  such  events  occur. 
Overall,  6  per  cent  of  Parties  mentioned  having  developed  country-specific  approaches 
consistently with IPCC guidance.  

171.  Some 38 per cent of Parties stated that emissions and removals from harvested wood 
products will be accounted for as part of their NDCs, with only a few of them (6 per cent of 
all Parties) mentioning the use of an approach other than the production approach.  

In addition, 25 per cent of Parties mentioned that the effects of age-class structure in 

172. 
forests will be taken into account when estimating the mitigation contribution of forests. 

B.  Domestic mitigation measures 

1.  Domestic mitigation measures for priority areas 

173.  A total of 98 per cent of Parties (the same share as in their previous NDCs) outlined 
in their new NDCs domestic mitigation measures as key instruments for achieving mitigation 
targets  for  their  NDCs  and/or  specific  priority  areas,  including  energy  supply,  transport, 
buildings, industry, AFOLU and waste. Specifically, Parties communicated measures most 
frequently  in  the  priority  area  of  energy  supply,  followed  by  transport  and  AFOLU. 
According to UNEP,37 these three priority areas together accounted for about 70 per cent of 
global GHG emissions in 2023 (see figure 16).  

37  Emissions shares of priority areas were estimated on the basis of data from UNEP. 2024. Emissions 
Gap Report 2024: No more hot air … please! With a massive gap between rhetoric and reality, 
countries draft new climate commitments. Nairobi: UNEP. Available at 
https://www.unep.org/resources/emissions-gap-report-2024; and UNEP Copenhagen Climate Centre 
and Common Futures. 2024. Bridging the gap: Sectoral greenhouse gas mitigation potentials in 2035. 
Copenhagen: UNEP Copenhagen Climate Centre. Available at 
https://unepccc.org/publications/bridging-the-gap-sectoral-greenhouse-gas-mitigation-potentials-in-
2035/. 

41 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Figure 16 
Estimated share in global greenhouse gas emissions of priority areas in 2023 

Waste and other, 4%

Buildings, 6%

Transport, 15%

Energy supply, 36%

AFOLU, 19%

Industry, 20%

2.  Feasible, effective and low-cost mitigation options in priority areas in 2035 

174.  According  to  the  UNEP  Bridging  the  gap report,38 mitigation  options  costing  USD 
200/t CO2 eq or less could, if fully implemented, reduce emissions sufficiently by 2035 to 
align with its 1.5 °C pathway with no or limited overshoot. These options have a projected 
net mitigation potential of 41 (36–46) Gt CO2 eq/year, with about 90 per cent of this potential 
coming from options costing USD 100/t CO2 eq or less. Many of these options have been 
assessed as technically viable. Parties reported measures for such options in their NDCs, as 
illustrated in figure 17.  

38  See footnote 37 above. 

42 

 
 
 
 
Figure 17 
Share of Parties referring to domestic mitigation measures for specific priority areas and mitigation options with 
high mitigation potential costing USD 200/t CO2 eq or less in 2035 in nationally determined contributions 

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Notes: (1) The shares reflect measures included in the new NDCs that are aimed at achieving 2035 mitigation targets;  

(2) if a Party communicated more than one measure for a mitigation option (e.g. three different measures for solar energy), it was 
counted as one Party communicating measures for that option; (3) the estimated net mitigation potential (in Gt CO2 eq/year) of each 
option costing below USD 200/t CO2 eq in 2035 is presented in parentheses, for example, “(7.9)” in the case of solar energy. These 
estimates are based on data from the UNEP Bridging the gap report and are associated with uncertainties.  

175.  Table  1  summarizes the  conditionality of these mitigation  options with the highest 
mitigation  potential,  each  exceeding  more  than  2  Gt  CO2  eq/year.  It  shows  that  domestic 
mitigation  measures  aimed  at  fully  or  partially  conditional  targets39 were  most  frequently 
reported in NDCs  in relation  to  afforestation and reforestation, solar energy and reducing 

39  Includes domestic mitigation measures aimed at achieving targets that are fully conditional and 

measures aimed at achieving both unconditional and conditional targets.  

43 

 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

deforestation.  A  conditionality  gap 40  can  also  be  observed  in  relation  to  reducing 
deforestation (28 percentage points), afforestation and reforestation (27 percentage points) 
and solar energy (25 percentage points). These conditionality gaps, combined with the data 
in table 1, provide an indication of the challenges faced by Parties in relation to the high level 
of support required for the implementation of specific measures. 

Table 1 
Conditionality of mitigation options with the highest estimated mitigation potential 
costing USD 200/t CO2 eq or less in 2035 according to the measures reported in 
nationally determined contributions 

Mitigation option 

Solar energy 

Wind energy 

Afforestation and reforestation 

Reduced deforestation 

Improved sustainable forest 
management 

Fuel switching in industry, including 
electrification 

Share of Parties 
reporting measures 
(%) 

Share of Parties reporting 
measures for fully or 
partially conditional targets 
(%) 

Share of Parties reporting 
measures for fully 
unconditional targets  
(%) 

50 

33 

56 

42 

47 

41 

39 

27 

42 

36 

34 

22 

14 

8 

16 

8 

12 

20 

Notes: (1) As notes (1) and (2) to figure 17; (2) see footnote 39 above for the definition of measures 
aimed at fully or partially conditional targets. 

3.  Global efforts and mitigation options covered in recent decisions 

176.  As shown in figure 16, energy-related emissions accounted for over three quarters of 
global emissions in 2023. A total of 75 per cent of Parties reported in their NDCs quantitative 
targets relevant to at least one of energy-related global efforts or mitigation options covered 
in decisions 1/CMA.3, 1/CMA.4 and 1/CMA.541 (for further information, see the additional 
information on domestic mitigation measures42). These include, but are not limited to:43 

(a) 

Tripling renewable energy capacity globally by 2030:  44 per cent of Parties 
indicated  quantitative  targets  for  increasing  the  installed  capacity  for  renewables-based 
electricity generation by 2030, amounting to 0.6 TW; 

(b)  Doubling the global average annual rate of energy efficiency improvement by 
2030: 5 per cent of Parties communicated targets for increasing the average annual rate of 
primary energy intensity  improvement by 2030, equating to an aggregated average annual 
improvement rate through to 2030 of 2.3 per cent; 

40  The difference between the shares of Parties that communicated domestic mitigation measures in their 
NDCs aimed at fully or partially conditional targets and the share that referred to measures aimed at 
fully unconditional targets. It is calculated by subtracting the share of Parties referring to measures 
aimed at fully unconditional mitigation targets from the share referring to measures aimed at fully or 
partially conditional mitigation targets. For example, the conditionality gap for solar energy (25 
percentage points) is derived from 39 per cent of Parties that included measures for solar energy 
aimed at fully or partially conditional mitigation targets and 14 per cent that communicated measures 
for solar energy aimed at fully unconditional mitigation targets. 

41  For non-energy-related global efforts or mitigation options, see chap. IV.K–L above related to the 

roles of forests and the ocean in NDC ambition and implementation.  

42  Available at https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/nationally-determined-

contributions-ndcs/2025-ndc-synthesis-report.  

43  Taking into account contributions to the efforts and options covered in the three recent CMA 

decisions, including those with the 2030 timeline and focus on this critical decade, this chap. VII.B.3 
considers measures and quantitative targets reported in both Parties’ new and previous NDCs. A 
comprehensive estimate of the aggregated targets referred to in this paragraph will only be possible 
once all new NDCs have been submitted.  

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

(c) 

Phasing down unabated coal power: 13 per cent of Parties reported quantitative 
targets  for  reducing  coal  power  generation  by  2030,  amounting  to  a  33  TWh  reduction. 
Additionally, 16 per cent communicated such targets for 2035, totalling a 776 TWh reduction; 

(d) 

Transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems in a just, orderly and 
equitable manner: nearly half of Parties (47 per cent), accounting for 9 per cent of total global 
electricity generation from fossil fuels in 2023, indicated quantitative targets for reducing the 
share of unabated fossil fuels in electricity generation by 2030, while 73 per cent of Parties 
reported  the  need  and/or  measures  for  a  just  transition  for  communities  and  workers 
dependent on fossil fuels; 

(e) 

Accelerating  zero-  and  low-emission  technologies:  3  per  cent  of  Parties 
indicated quantitative targets for installed nuclear power capacity by 2035, amounting to 10 
GW. Additionally, 8 per cent communicated quantitative targets for increasing annual carbon 
capture  capacity  by  2035,  totalling  39  Mt  CO2.  Further,  3  per  cent  reported  quantitative 
targets for increasing low-carbon hydrogen production by 2035, amounting to 1.5 Mt; 

(f) 

Accelerating  the  substantial  reduction  of  non-CO2  emissions  globally,  in 
particular  CH4  emissions,  by  2030:  3  per  cent  of  Parties  included  quantitative  targets  for 
reducing CH4 emissions from fossil fuel operations by 2030, amounting to a 2 Mt reduction. 

177. 
In  addition  to  the  information  in  NDCs,  some  Parties  have  announced  domestic 
pledges  and  projects 44 relevant  to  the  above-mentioned  global  efforts,  including  tripling 
renewable energy capacity globally by 2030, enhancing low-carbon hydrogen production and 
expanding capture capacity for CCUS. The combined effects of these pledges and projects 
are projected to significantly exceed the aggregated targets based on the NDCs for the same 
global  efforts,  indicating  that  submitted  NDCs  do  not  cover  all  domestically  announced 
pledges and projects. Some Parties may nationally determine  that progress in these areas, 
along with other contributing factors such as enhanced international cooperation and support, 
contributes to potential for accelerated implementation and more ambition. For example, for 
the  64  Parties  that  have  submitted  new  NDCs,  it  is  estimated  that  total  domestically 
announced commitments for renewable energy capacity by 2030 reach 2 TW,45 representing 
more than 3.5 times the 0.6 TW aggregated target capacity according to the NDCs submitted 
by the 64 Parties (see para. 176(a) above).  

178.  Regarding CO2 removal technologies other than CCUS referred to in paragraph 176(e) 
above, 9 per cent of Parties indicated measures for direct air carbon capture and storage and 
3  per  cent  measures  for  bioenergy  with  carbon  capture  and  storage.  According  to  the 
Synthesis  Report  of  the  AR6, 46  1.5 °C  pathways  with  no  or  limited  overshoot  require 
cumulative net-negative  emissions  of 220  Gt  CO2  by  2100,  increasing  to 360  Gt  CO2  for 
1.5 °C pathways with a high overshoot.47 Deep GHG emission reductions by 2030 and 2040, 
including substantial reductions in CH4 emissions, as referenced to in paragraph 176(f) above, 
could reduce peak warming levels, thereby reducing feasibility and sustainability concerns 
regarding the large-scale deployment of CO2 removal technologies. 

179.  All  Parties  reported  measures  or  quantitative  targets  relevant  to  global  efforts  or 
mitigation options referred to in decision 1/CMA.5. Informed by the outcomes of the first 
GST, 61 per cent of Parties made direct references to these efforts or options in their NDCs 
(see figure 18). The most frequently cited was tripling renewable energy capacity by 2030, 
followed by doubling the average annual rate of energy efficiency improvement by 2030 and 
transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems. Focusing specifically on quantitative 
targets relevant to the efforts or options, as referred to in paragraph 176 above, 75 per cent 

44  Existing domestic pledges and projects that were announced separately from the submitted NDCs, 

which may or may not have been included in the NDCs.  

45  Estimated on the basis of data from IEA. 2024. COP28 Tripling Renewable Capacity Pledge: 
Tracking countries’ ambitions and identifying policies to bridge the gap. Paris: IEA. All rights 
reserved. Available at https://www.iea.org/reports/cop28-tripling-renewable-capacity-pledge. 

46  IPCC. 2023. Climate Change 2023: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to 
the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Core Writing Team, 
H Lee, and J Romero (eds.). Geneva: IPCC. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/syr/.  

47  According to the Synthesis Report of the AR6, a high overshoot refers to temporarily exceeding the 

1.5 °C global warming by 0.1–0.3 °C for up to several decades.  

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

of Parties reported such targets in their NDCs. Of these, 47 per cent made direct references 
to  the  efforts  or  options,  with  tripling  renewable  energy  capacity  by 2030  being  the  most 
frequently cited, by 28 per cent of Parties. 

Figure 18 
Shares of Parties that reported domestic mitigation measures or quantitative targets with direct references to the 
energy-related global efforts or mitigation options referred to in decision 1/CMA.5 in their nationally determined 
contributions 

Tripling renewable energy capacity by 2030

Doubling average annual rate of energy efficiency improvements by 2030

58%

52%

Phasing down unabated coal power

Utilizing zero- and low-carbon fuels

23%

27%

Transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems

Accelerating zero- and low-emission technologies

47%

42%

Substantially reducing non-CO₂ emissions, in particular CH₄, by 2030

Reducing emissions from road transport on a range of pathways

31%

34%

Phasing out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies

16%

Using transitional fuels in facilitating the energy transition

5%

Transitioning to sustainable patterns of consumption and production

17%

Notes: (1) Direct references are to the relevant paragraphs of decision 1/CMA.5, including their paragraph numbers and substantive 

content; (2) if a Party communicated more than one measure for a global effort or mitigation option, it was counted as one Party 
communicating measures for that effort or option. 

4.  Coherence and synergies with development priorities 

180.  A total of 87 per cent of Parties, a sharp increase from 16858 per cent in their previous 
NDCs, highlighted policy coherence and synergies between their mitigation measures and 
development priorities, including LT-LEDS and SDGs.  

181.  Nearly half of those Parties (41 per cent) identified domestic mitigation measures in 
the context of longer-term measures or targets set out in their LT-LEDS and/or other national 
long-term low-emission development strategies or laws. In addition, the same share of Parties 
(41 per cent) communicated one or more SDGs in relation to which there are synergies with 
their priority areas or mitigation measures (see figure 19), clarifying the alignment between 
their mitigation measures and efforts towards achieving the SDGs. 

Figure 19 
Shares of Parties referring to synergies between efforts in mitigation priority areas and efforts towards the 
Sustainable Development Goals in nationally determined contributions 

Note: The shading reflects how frequently synergies were identified by Parties: the darker the shading, the more frequently 

synergies were identified. 

46 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

VIII.  Means of implementation 

1.  Finance 

182.  A  total  of  88  per  cent  of  Parties  provided  information  on  the  finance  required  to 
implement activities in line with their NDCs, with 75 per cent characterizing finance in terms 
of support needed (see figure 20). A total cost in the range of USD 1,970.8–1,975.0 billion 
in aggregate was reported as climate finance required for NDCs  by 52 per cent of Parties, 
comprising USD 1,073.88–1074.00 billion identified as support needed from international 
sources, USD 214.4 billion identified to derive from domestic sources and USD 682.5–686.5 
billion for which the source was not specified.  

183.  Of the Parties providing information on climate finance support needed, 29 per cent 
included such information throughout their NDCs, such as in thematic chapters on adaptation 
and mitigation, 42 per cent in a stand-alone section on climate finance and 31 per cent in a 
means of implementation section. Further, 63 per cent of Parties also referenced or indicated 
ongoing  efforts  to  develop  financing  strategies  or  investment  plans  to  support  NDC 
implementation and 21 per cent did not provide any information on climate finance.  

Figure 20 
Climate finance information in nationally determined contributions 

184.  The level of detail of cost estimates varied across NDCs, with some Parties reporting 
total cost estimates at the aggregated level, some presenting cost estimates by sector or area 
and some differentiating between conditional support required and unconditional funds for 
implementing their NDCs. The starting points for costed estimates in NDCs also varied, from 
as early as 2021 to as late as 2031.  

185.  A  total  of  90  per  cent  of  the  Parties  that  provided  information  on  climate  finance 
required stated the sources of finance expected to be used in implementing their NDCs, with 
56 per cent referring to a mix of international and domestic sources, including both public 
and  private  sources,  31  per  cent  to  international  sources  only  and  2  per  cent  to  domestic 
sources only, with the remaining 10 per cent not specifying this information. Some 46 per 
cent  of  Parties  differentiated  their  financial  needs  between  conditional  and  unconditional 
support. Domestic sources are often used to address unconditional commitments outlined in 
the  NDCs  or  for  a  specific  area  or  sector  being  prioritized,  and  include  national  budget 
allocations, public sector investment programmes, loans received from international sources 
(which  are  to  be  repaid  domestically)  and  revenues  from  domestic  fiscal  measures. 
Meanwhile,  international  sources,  obtained  from  a  variety  of  public,  private  and  blended 
sources of finance, including bilateral and multilateral channels such as multilateral climate 
funds, multilateral development banks and the private sector, include green energy bonds, 

47 

 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

sustainable sovereign bonds, multi-funder trust funds and debt-for-climate swaps. In addition, 
leveraging mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement was mentioned by 53 per cent 
of Parties as an essential financial instrument for mobilizing financial resources or attracting 
investment to support NDC implementation.  

186.  Of  the  Parties  reporting  costed  finance  needs,  82  per  cent  identified  needs  for 
mitigation  in  the  energy  (including  transport  and  power  generation),  AFOLU,  IPPU  and 
waste  sectors.  Some  76  per  cent  of  the  Parties  reporting  costed  finance  needs  identified 
adaptation  needs  primarily  related  to  agriculture  and  food  security,  water  resources, 
infrastructure, health and water, sanitation and hygiene, biodiversity and ecosystems, tourism, 
and  disaster  and  climate  risk  management.  Some  Parties  highlighted  that  their  NAPs  are 
central to achieving their adaptation priorities and referenced  specific adaptation needs. A 
total of 15 per cent of Parties included costed cross-cutting needs, while 12 per cent of Parties 
included needs related to addressing loss and damage in the adaptation component of their 
NDCs and 15 per cent of Parties reported needs related to addressing loss and damage in a 
separate chapter of their NDCs.  

187.  Overall, 47 per cent of Parties recognized the importance of considering gender and 
the  perspectives  of  Indigenous  Peoples  and  vulnerable  groups  in  financing  NDC 
implementation, including through gender-responsive budgeting, costed needs assessments, 
targeted financial incentives, institutional strategies and partnerships.  

188.  Some 77 per cent of Parties that reported needs in their NDCs reported finance-related 
challenges and limitations related to implementing their NDCs, including: 

(a) 

Difficulties in identifying actual financial needs owing to cost estimates being 
preliminary  in  nature  or  underestimated,  limited  data  availability  and  quality,  insufficient 
institutional  and  technical  capacity,  fragmented  planning  frameworks,  and  persistent 
knowledge management and data availability gaps that impede comprehensive identification 
of financial needs; 

(b) 

Limited and delayed access to finance owing to lengthy application procedures, 
co-financing requirements, lack of direct budgetary support, financing structures that are not 
fit  for  purpose,  geopolitical  restrictions,  and  insufficient  and  unpredictable  global  finance 
flows; 

(c) 

Difficulties  in  mobilizing  private  finance  owing  to  low  profitability  in 
vulnerable  sectors,  high  perceived  risks,  limited  investor  appetite  for  adaptation  and 
inadequate project preparation capacity; 

(d)  Debt burden and fiscal constraints arising from high debt levels, limited fiscal 
space  and  the  diversion  of  resources  from  sustainable  development  to  address  needs 
perceived as more urgent. Parties noted that economic shocks, high ratios of debt to gross 
domestic  product  and  competing  development  priorities  continue  to  erode  fiscal  space, 
constraining public investment in climate action. 

189.  Compared  with  in  their  previous  NDCs,  21  per  cent  more  Parties  provided  cost 
estimates for the first time in their new NDCs, while 10 per cent of Parties that had provided 
quantitative information in their previous NDC did not provide quantitative information in 
their  new  NDCs.  Additionally,  18  per  cent  more  Parties  provided  cost  estimates  for 
adaptation-related  needs,  reflecting  a  growing  focus  on  integrating  climate  change 
considerations into national budgeting processes, public financial management systems and 
the development of NDC implementation plans, climate finance policies and strategies. 

2.  Technology development and transfer and innovation  

190.  A total of 97 per cent of Parties provided information on technology development and 
transfer, highlighting their priorities and/or needs, at varying degrees of granularity. About 
45  per  cent  of  those  Parties  included  both  qualitative  and  quantitative  aspects  related  to 
technology  needs  and  priorities,  marking  an  increase  in  the  share  of  Parties  including 
quantitative information since their previous NDCs.  

191.  About  75  per  cent  of  Parties  provided  specific  information  on  technology-related 
measures,  mainly  in  the  context  of  specific  sectors,  and  some  with  a  focus  on  specific 

48 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

technologies.  Some  34  per  cent  of  Parties  referred  to  information  on  technology-related 
matters in other reports such as BTRs, NAPs and adaptation communications to complement 
the information provided in the NDCs. Overall, 27 per cent of Parties (a 13 per cent increase 
since  their  previous  NDCs)  referred  to  technology  needs  assessments  as  a  source  of 
information for NDC formulation or an instrument for advancing NDC implementation. 

192. 
In terms of technology priorities and needs, 92 per cent of Parties outlined measures 
in support of mitigation. A sectoral analysis of these measures shows that the predominant 
share of these needs and  priorities is related to the energy sector (cited by  88 per cent of 
Parties), followed by the transport and AFOLU sectors (cited by 65 and 55 per cent of Parties 
respectively). Compared with their previous NDCs, there is a notable increase (from 14 to 45 
per cent) in the share of Parties referring to technology-related measures in the IPPU sector, 
including related to refrigeration and air conditioning. When referring to the outcomes of the 
first GST, in addition to priorities related to renewable energy and energy efficiency, around 
23  per  cent  of  Parties  highlighted  the  current  or  potential  role  of  CCUS  technologies  in 
achieving their mitigation targets, particularly in the energy and IPPU sectors. 

193.  A total of 72 per cent of Parties elaborated on technology-related measures focused 
on adaptation. A majority of the Parties (more than 50 per cent) cited technology measures 
related to agrifood systems, climate monitoring and observations (increased from 22 to 55 
per  cent  since  previous  NDCs)  and  the  water  sector.  Many  of  the  adaptation-focused 
measures  were  formulated  to  address  adaptation  priorities  in  multiple  sectors  (e.g.  early 
warning systems  in the agriculture, water and health  sectors) and/or designed to yield co-
benefits  for  mitigation,  biodiversity  and/or  sustainable  development  (e.g.  nature-based 
solutions and ecosystem services of forests and ocean).  

194.  Frequently  cited  cross-cutting  and  multi-sector  technology  measures  include  the 
application  of  digital  solutions,  including  artificial  intelligence;  energy  and  material 
efficiency measures; measures for ‘climate proofing infrastructure’; and the use of integrated 
spatial planning tools and climate observation technologies across various sectors to reduce 
GHG emissions and/or enhance climate resilience. Some 20 per cent of Parties referenced 
technology  aspects  in  the  context  of  addressing  loss  and  damage,  including  for  assessing 
associated needs. 

195. 
In  articulating  their  needs  and  priorities  related  to  technology  development  and 
transfer  for  achieving  their  NDCs,  Parties  included  information  on  various  types  of 
technology (see figure 21). There is broad consistency with their previous NDCs in terms of 
the order of frequently cited categories of technology needs and priorities, but with a notable 
increase in the share of Parties referring to measures other than a specific technology, namely 
those pertaining to research and innovation, institutional aspects, enabling environments and 
planning  tools.  In  addition,  some  30  per  cent  of  Parties  underscored  the  interplay  of 
technology  development,  implementation  and  uptake  with  capacity-building,  skills 
development, and the creation of decent work and quality jobs. 

49 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

Figure 21 
Categories of technology needs and priorities communicated in nationally determined 
contributions 

Specific technology

Innovation, research and  development

Policy, regulatory and legal measures (enabling
environment)

75%

73%

73%

Institutional strengthening and coordination

59%

Planning tools (technology needs assessments
and technology roadmaps)

Multi-category and others

48%

42%

196. 
Identified  measures  concerning  policy,  regulatory  and  legal  aspects  in  support  of 
technology  development  and  transfer  are  varied  and  include  development  of  sectoral 
guidelines and standards, certification and rating systems, as well as regulatory and policy 
frameworks, accompanied  by financial incentives, including  with the aim of  engaging the 
private sector in technology implementation and uptake. Parties referred to such measures as 
being  instrumental  to  strengthening  enabling  environments  for  promoting  the  use  of  low-
carbon  and  climate-resilient  technologies,  highlighting  actions  in  the  energy,  transport, 
AFOLU and ecosystem sectors, among others. In this context, some Parties underscored the 
importance of robust monitoring and reporting mechanisms, often combined with geospatial 
tools  and  information  systems,  for  ensuring  transparency  of  actions  and  their  policy  and 
regulatory compliance, including in the context of cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement. 

197.  The focus on technology-related data and knowledge management systems was also 
underscored in the context of strengthening institutional and coordination capabilities. Parties 
emphasized the pivotal role of such systems, which are often powered by digital solutions 
and  accompanied  by  related  institutional  arrangements,  in  enabling  cooperation  among 
institutions and at different levels of governance, including for sharing information, tracking 
action, improving reporting and monitoring and evaluation, mobilizing support and fostering 
partnerships. In addition, Parties referred to government-led initiatives and programmes that 
are  designed  to  promote  enhanced  and  coordinated  domestic  action  for  technology 
development and deployment, including action by the private sector, citizens and youth.  

198.  When  referring  to  measures  related  to  technology  innovation,  research  and 
demonstration (which 73 per cent of  Parties did), 57 per cent of those  Parties highlighted 
them as overarching priorities for advancing technology development and transfer for both 
mitigation and adaptation. When specified, such measures were most frequently highlighted 
in the context of the agriculture, forestry and energy sectors, followed by measures focused 
on  ecosystems  including  ocean,  and  the  water  and  waste  sectors.  In  this  regard,  Parties 
underscored the importance of context-specific research and innovation and local technology 
testing,  piloting  and  demonstration,  including  to  foster  the  engagement  of  youth  in 
technological innovation.  

199.  Parties  communicated  a  widespread  whole-of-society  approach  to  technology 
implementation,  with  92  per  cent  of  Parties  that  included  information  on  technology 
development and transfer referring to domestic implementation actors beyond the national 
Government for  advancing  technology development and transfer and  63 per cent of those 
Parties  citing  subnational  governments,  local  authorities  and  local  communities  as  key 
implementation actors. The private sector, farmers and worker communities, youth, women, 
Indigenous Peoples and members of academia were also frequently cited in this regard.  

50 

 
 
3.  Capacity-building and institutional strengthening  

FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

200.  A total of 84 per cent of Parties referenced capacity-building in varying detail, with 
31 per cent of those Parties discussing it in sections on means of implementation or capacity-
building,  14 per cent discussing it throughout their NDCs and 53 per cent providing only 
limited references or referring to external sources, such as adaptation communications, BTRs 
and  NAPs,  for  more  information  on  capacity-building  support  provided  or  needed.  This 
broadly aligns with the Parties’ previous NDCs and reflects a steady commitment towards 
building  the  capacity  of  developing  countries.  However,  opportunities  remain  to  further 
elevate national ambition on and adopt a more systematic approach to building capacity that 
could facilitate enhanced climate action.  

201.  A total of 66 per cent of Parties explicitly stated that the implementation of their NDCs 
is either fully or partially dependent on receiving capacity-building support. Parties continued 
to  emphasize  capacity-building  as  a  critical  enabler  for  achieving  their  climate  goals. 
Capacity-building  support  needs  were  highlighted  across  adaptation  (by  66  per  cent  of 
Parties), mitigation (by 69 per cent of Parties) and cross-cutting objectives (by 47 per cent of 
Parties),  including  transparency,  technology  deployment  and  access  to  climate  finance. 
Notably, 25 per cent of Parties identified specific capacity needs related to addressing loss 
and damage, marking a new development not reflected in their previous NDCs.  

202.  Parties  articulated  capacity  gaps  and  needs  across  multiple  cross-cutting  priorities, 
including with regard to strengthening institutional coordination, enhancing the availability 
and  sharing of  climate  data  and  information  and  improving  collaboration  between  public, 
private and international stakeholders. Many Parties reported challenges in accessing climate 
finance, particularly in navigating financial mechanisms, attracting private investment and 
improving  financial  planning,  resource  mobilization  and  utilization.  Technology-related 
capacity needs were frequently mentioned, especially regarding the adoption of low-carbon 
technologies  and  tools  for  sustainable  resource  management  and  reduced  environmental 
impacts.  Additionally,  capacity  gaps  were  identified  in  relation  to  meeting  the  reporting 
requirements under the ETF, such as with regard to securing the technical expertise needed 
for  sector-level  monitoring  of  emission  reductions,  improving  institutional  coordination 
across ministries and between national and local institutions, and establishing and enabling 
robust MRV systems. Several Parties emphasized the need to build capacity for addressing 
loss and damage, such as with regard to accessing financial support, strengthening research 
and assessment of economic and non-economic losses and participating in the mechanisms 
under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and in carbon markets. 

203. 
 Capacity needs were reported both across multiple sectors and within specific sectors. 
A  total  of 53  per  cent  of  Parties  cited  capacity  needs  in  the  agriculture  sector,  such  as  in 
relation  to  improving  climate  modelling  for  emergency  responses,  promoting  sustainable 
farming  practices  and  advancing  climate-smart  agriculture;  and  30  per  cent  of  Parties 
highlighted needs in the energy sector, including related to strengthening energy resilience 
and  building  technical  capacity  for  renewable  energy  technologies.  Other  sector-specific 
needs relate to, inter alia, addressing climate change related diseases and impacts on human 
health,  enhancing  disaster  risk  reduction  efforts,  decarbonizing  transport,  enhancing  the 
resilience of built environments, and raising public awareness of waste management practices 
and sustainable water management. 

204.  Parties described capacity-building activities aimed at enhancing public engagement 
and  awareness-raising,  technical  training,  education,  research  and  innovation.  Parties 
acknowledged the value of UNFCCC reporting processes, such as BTRs and NAPs, for their 
capacity  development.  Non-Party  stakeholders,  development  agencies,  United  Nations 
agencies  and  financial  mechanisms  were  emphasized  as  vital  to  implementing  capacity-
building efforts and achieving climate action objectives. 

205.  Consistently  with  their  previous  NDCs,  Parties  emphasized  their  capacity-building 
priorities for vulnerable groups, such as  women, youth, and Indigenous Peoples and local 
communities,  in  relation  to  strengthening  engagement  in  decision-making,  increasing 
awareness  and  understanding  of  climate  change  and  health-related  and  disaster  risks,  and 
expanding training and skills-building initiatives for green jobs. Capacity-building activities 
were reported frequently as having the aim of addressing capacity gaps for the stakeholders 

51 

 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

mentioned  above  as  well  as  for  government  employees,  educators,  the  private  sector  and 
those active in vulnerable sectors, such as agriculture, fisheries, public health and tourism.  

IX.  Contribution towards achieving the objective of the 

Convention as set out in its Article 2, and towards Article 2, 
paragraph 1(a), and Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Paris 
Agreement 

206.  The  information  necessary  to  facilitate  clarity,  transparency  and  understanding  of 
NDCs, which 91 per cent of Parties communicated, includes information on how the NDC 
contributes towards:48 

(a) 

Achieving the objective of the Convention as set out in its Article 2; 

(b)  Article 2, paragraph 1(a), and Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement. 

207.  A  total  of  36  per  cent  of  Parties  indicated  that  their  level  of  future  emissions  is 
expected to fall within the scope of a global emission pathway that is consistent with the goal 
of keeping the global average temperature increase well below 2 or limited to 1.5 °C. In that 
context, Parties highlighted their national mitigation and/or adaptation efforts aligned with 
sustainable  development  objectives  and  national  circumstances,  economy-wide  emission 
reduction targets, commitment to reach net zero by mid-century, development pathways for 
decoupling  emissions  from  economic  growth  and  advancing  decarbonization,  enhanced 
measures  for reforestation  and  ecosystem  conservation,  and  mobilization  of  domestic  and 
international support.  

208.  Since  this  report  considers  64  new  NDCs,  covering  30  per  cent  of  global  GHG 
emissions in 2019, it is not possible to provide a clear picture of the aggregated effect of all 
NDCs  towards  achieving  the  objective  of  the  Convention  as  set  out  in  its  Article  2,  and 
towards Article 2, paragraph 1(a), and Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement on basis 
of the new NDCs, as was done in previous NDC synthesis reports.49 

Aggregate emissions of Parties that submitted new nationally determined 
contributions 

209.  Total GHG emission levels resulting from the implementation of the new NDCs are 
projected to be around 13.9 (13.3–14.6) Gt CO2 eq in 2030 and around 13.0 (12.0–13.9) Gt 
CO2 eq in 2035 for the relevant group of Parties. In comparison, total global GHG emissions 
(without LULUCF) are estimated to be around 54.1 (51.2–57.0) Gt CO2 eq in 2030 (see figure 
22).  

210.  Compared with their 2019 GHG emission levels, the implementation of Parties’ new 
NDCs is estimated to result in a strong decline in their emissions of 11 (7–15) per cent by 
2030 and an even stronger decline of 17 (11–24) per cent by 2035 (see table 2). 

Table 2 
Projected emission reductions by 2030 and 2035 compared with historical and estimated emission 
levels for the group of Parties that submitted a new NDC 

Years of comparison emission level 

Year of projected 
emission level 

2030 

2035 

1990 

2000 

2005 

2010 

2015 

2019 

2025 

2030 

7 (3–12) 

9 (5–14)  13 (8–17)  12 (7–16)  11 (7–16)  11 (7–15) 

3 (0–6) 

– 

14 (7–20) 

16 (10–
22) 

19 (13–
25) 

18 (12–
24) 

18 (11–
24) 

17 (11–
24) 

10 (4–15) 

7 (5–10) 

Notes: (1) A positive number indicates a reduction below historical levels; (2) the range is the min-

max range across high and low conditional and unconditional case. 

48  See decision 4/CMA.1, annex I, para. 7. 
49  See https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/nationally-determined-contributions-

ndcs/2024-ndc-synthesis-report.  

52 

 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

211. 
Implementation  of  their  new  NDCs,  even  considering  only  their  unconditional 
elements, will result in a peaking of GHG emissions for the group of Parties before 2030, 
with  strong  emission  reductions  thereafter  until  2035  (see  figure  22).  If  all  conditional 
elements of the new NDCs are fully implemented, the GHG emission reductions of the group 
of Parties for 2035 would change from 11–24 per cent (full range) to 19–24 per cent below 
the 2019 level. If none of the conditional elements are implemented, these Parties’ 2035 GHG 
emissions are projected to be 11–15 per cent below the 2019 level. 

Figure 22 
Global emissions and aggregate emissions of Parties that submitted new nationally determined contributions 

212.  The  Synthesis  Report  of  the  AR6  indicates  that,  in  order  to  be  in  line  with  global 
modelled pathways to limiting warming to 1.5 C (with over 50 per cent likelihood in 2100) 
with no or limited overshoot and those to limiting warming to below 2 °C (with over 67 per 
cent likelihood), GHG emission reductions will have to be reduced by 60 (49–77) per cent 
by 2035 relative to the 2019 level and by 35 (22–55) per cent by 2035 relative to the 2019 
level respectively. For 2040 and 2050, further emission reductions will be needed in order to 
limit warming to below 1.5 °C with no or limited overshoot, including  achieving net zero 
CO2 emissions by 2050 (a 99 per cent CO2 emission reduction relative to the 2019 level).  

213.  With their GHG emissions in 2035 on average estimated to be  17 (11–24) per cent 
below  their  2019  level  (see  para.  211  above),  the  scale  of  the  total  emission  reduction 
expected to be achieved by the group of Parties (noting that this is only about 33 per cent of 
Parties  to  the  Paris  Agreement)  through  implementation  of  their  new  NDCs  falls  short of 
what is necessary according to the IPCC ranges referred to in paragraph 212 above. 

214.  On a per capita basis, the Parties with new NDCs are estimated to have approximately 
11 per cent higher per capita emission levels in 2019 (at 7.6 t CO2 eq) compared with the 
global  average  (6.8  t  CO2  eq).  The  new  NDCs  indicate  a  declining  trend  in  the  group  of 
Parties’ per capita emissions, from more than  8.5 t CO2 eq in 2010 to about 5.3 t CO2 eq 
projected for 2035 (see figure 23). Per capita emissions for this group of Parties are estimated 
to decline by 11 per cent from 2030 to 2035.50 

215.  A total of 70 per cent of Parties with new NDCs have both 2035 emission targets in 
their new NDCs and long-term visions, development pathways and targets communicated in 
their  NDCs  or  LT-LEDS  (see  para.  152  above).51 On  the  basis  of  that  information,  and 
assuming the full implementation of all NDCs and LT-LEDS, those Parties’ total emissions 
in 2050 are estimated at 7.1 (6.2–7.9) Gt CO2 eq.52 The link between the NDCs and long-
term  visions,  development  pathways  and  targets  or  LT-LEDS  is  also  reflected  in  the 

50    Per capita emission levels were calculated on the basis of the AR6 Working Group III scenario 
database (available at https://data.ece.iiasa.ac.at/ar6/) for the categories “C3a” and “C1a” 
respectively. 

51    See decision 1/CMA.5, para. 40. 
52  Assuming constant emissions after 2035 for Parties without a long-term target. 

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2025/8 

aggregate emission levels of those Parties in 2035, which are approximately consistent with 
following  a  linear  emissions  trajectory  from  2030  estimated  emission  levels  towards 
aggregated  emission  levels  resulting  from  the  implementation  of  the  long-term  visions, 
development pathways and targets communicated in NDCs or LT-LEDS. 

216.  Mindful of the inherent uncertainty of such long-term estimates, and the need for full 
implementation  of  NDCs,  the  information  indicates  that  the  total  GHG  emission  level  of 
Parties with new NDCs could be around 55 (50–60) per cent lower in 2050 than in 2019, and 
their annual per capita emissions would be  around 2.6 (2.3–2.9) t CO2 eq by 2050. Under 
scenarios of limiting warming to likely below 2 °C (with over 67 per cent likelihood), global 
annual  per  capita  emissions  are  estimated  at  2.3  (1.8–2.7)  t  CO2  eq  in  2050;  hence  the 
estimated long- term per capita emissions of these Parties are estimated at a level consistent 
with 2 °C scenarios. However, for scenarios of limiting warming to 1.5 °C (with 50 per cent 
likelihood by 2100) with limited overshoot, annual per capita emissions are required to be at 
1.2 (1.0–1.5) t CO2 eq, which is two times lower than the projections based on new NDCs 
and LT-LEDS by 2050. 

Figure 23 
Emission levels of Parties that have submitted new nationally determined contributions in the context of per 
capita emission levels of scenarios that limit warming to 1.5 °C or below 2 °C warming and in the context of the 
long-term targets of the Parties 

Note: Globally averaged per capita emissions under scenarios of limiting warming to 1.5 °C and below 2 °C (coloured bands) are 

shown in the context of global per capita emissions (dashed line) and NDC targets until 2030, as well as in comparison with per 
capita emission levels (solid line) of Parties that have submitted new NDCs (left panel); the scenarios are the C1 (“1.5 °C”), C3a 
(“2 °C”)and “NDC and delayed action (P3b)” C2 & C3 scenarios assessed by the contribution of Working Group III to AR6 (left 
panel); emissions of Parties that have submitted new NDCs are compared with a linear trajectory between their recent historical 
emissions (2023 level) and emission levels in line with their long-term visions, quantified for 2050 (red dashed line), showing a near-
linear transition (right panel). 

54 

 
 
  
 
 
 
