Climate Change - NASA Science Explore Search News &amp; Events News &amp; Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts &amp; Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia Multimedia Images Videos on NASA+ Interactives NASA Apps Podcasts e-Books STEM Multimedia NASA+ Search Suggested Searches Climate Change Artemis Expedition 64 Mars perseverance SpaceX Crew-2 International Space Station View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News &amp; Events Multimedia NASA+ Highlights 6 min read NASA Tests Drones in Death Valley, Preps for Martian Sands and Skies article 6 days ago 8 min read Sugars, ‘Gum,’ Stardust Found in NASA&#8217;s Asteroid Bennu Samples article 6 days ago 4 min read NASA&#8217;s Roman Observatory Passes Spate of Key Tests article 2 weeks ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-REx Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto &amp; Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets &amp; Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Matter Dark Energy Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics &amp; Space Science The Sun &amp; Heliophysics Biological &amp; Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones &amp; You Technology Technology Transfer &amp; Spinoffs Space Travel Technology Technology Living in Space Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, or Speakers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA&#039;s Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News &amp; Events Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts &amp; Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Multimedia Images Videos on NASA+ Interactives NASA Apps Podcasts e-Books STEM Multimedia Highlights 4 min read NASA&#8217;s Roman Observatory Passes Spate of Key Tests article 2 weeks ago 3 min read CHAPEA Crew Begins Stay Inside NASA’s Mars Habitat for Second Mission article 2 weeks ago 5 min read NASA’s 2025 Astronaut Candidates: Shaping Artemis Exploration article 2 weeks ago Highlights 4 min read NASA Selects 2 Instruments for Artemis IV Lunar Surface Science article 4 days ago 5 min read NASA Astronaut Jonny Kim Advances Research Aboard Space Station article 5 days ago 3 min read CHAPEA Crew Begins Stay Inside NASA’s Mars Habitat for Second Mission article 2 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read Senyar Swamps Sumatra article 3 days ago 4 min read Hayli Gubbi’s Explosive First Impression article 4 days ago 1 min read Camp Landsat article 5 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Wins Second Emmy Award for 2024 Total Solar Eclipse Broadcast article 3 days ago 2 min read F.10 PRISM Correction, FAQ posted, and pre-proposal teleconference today December 5, 2025. article 3 days ago 4 min read NASA Selects 2 Instruments for Artemis IV Lunar Surface Science article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Hubble Spots a Storm of New Stars article 3 days ago 4 min read NASA-JAXA XRISM Finds Elemental Bounty in Supernova Remnant article 4 days ago 8 min read NASA Completes Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope Construction article 4 days ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Wins Second Emmy Award for 2024 Total Solar Eclipse Broadcast article 3 days ago 2 min read F.10 PRISM Correction, FAQ posted, and pre-proposal teleconference today December 5, 2025. article 3 days ago 1 min read B.3 Living With a Star Science Clarification Regarding Interagency Awards article 3 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA&#8217;s X-59 Completes First Flight, Prepares for More Flight Testing article 3 weeks ago 4 min read NASA Flights Study Cosmic Ray Effects for Air, Future Space Travelers article 2 months ago 3 min read NASA, Partners Push Forward with Remotely Piloted Airspace Integration article 3 months ago Highlights 2 min read F.10 PRISM Correction, FAQ posted, and pre-proposal teleconference today December 5, 2025. article 3 days ago 13 min read OVERFLOW 2.5 article 5 days ago 5 min read OVERFLOW 2.4 article 5 days ago Highlights 1 min read Join the Artemis Mission to the Moon article 3 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read NASA’s Fly Foundational Robots Demo to Bolster In-Space Infrastructure article 6 days ago 4 min read The Overview Effect: Astronaut Perspectives from 25 Years in Low Earth Orbit article 2 weeks ago 6 min read The International Space Station Marks 25 Years of Continuous Human Presence article 6 days ago Highlights 3 min read Pódcast en español de la NASA estrena su tercera temporada article 5 months ago 5 min read Las carreras en la NASA despegan con las pasantías article 7 months ago 4 min read El X-59 de la NASA completa las pruebas electromagnéticas article 9 months ago Explore This Section Climate Change Facts Evidence Causes Effects Scientific Consensus What is Climate Change? Extreme Weather Questions (FAQ) Earth Indicators Carbon Dioxide Global Temperature Methane Arctic Sea Ice Minimum Extent Ice Sheets Sea Level Ocean Warming Mitigation and Adaptation Mitigation and Adaptation Sustainability and Government Resources Stories Climate Change Stories Ask NASA Climate More Eyes on the Earth Multimedia Climate Interactives Climate Change From the unique vantage point in space, NASA collects critical long-term observations of our changing planet. Unable to render the provided source NASA applies ingenuity and expertise gained from decades of planetary and deep-space exploration to the study of our home planet. The Earth Science Division operates more than 20 satellites in orbit, sponsors hundreds of research programs and studies, and funds opportunities to put data to use for societal needs. We develop new ways to observe the oceans, land cover, ice, atmosphere, and life, and we measure how changes in one drive changes in others over the short and long term. While listening to and collaborating with industry leaders, international partners, academic institutions, and other users of our data, we deepen knowledge of our planet, drive innovations, and deliver science to help inform decisions that benefit the nation and the world. Learn more about how NASA Earth science helps Americans respond to challenges. Wildfires and Climate Change Earth's warming climate is amplifying wildland fire activity, particularly in northern and temperate forests. When fires ignite the landscape, NASA’s satellites and instruments can detect and track them. This information helps communities and land managers around the world prepare for and respond to fires, and also provides a rich data source to help scientists better understand this growing risk. Learn More about Wildfires and Climate Change Latest News More NASA News Article 4 Min Read Satellites Detect Seasonal Pulses in Earth’s Glaciers Article 1 Min Read NASA, NOAA 2025 Ozone Hole Update 5 Min Read NASA, NOAA Rank 2025 Ozone Hole as 5th Smallest Since 1992 Article 4 Min Read Arctic Sea Ice Reaches Annual Low Article 3 Min Read Greenland Ice Sheet Gets a Refresh Article Evidence Causes Effects How Do We Know Climate Change is Real? There is unequivocal evidence that Earth is warming at an unprecedented rate. Human activity is the principal cause. Earth-orbiting satellites and new technologies have helped scientists see the big picture, collecting many different types of information about our planet and its climate all over the world. These data, collected over many years, reveal the signs and patterns of a changing climate. Read More What is causing climate change? Human activities are driving the global warming trend observed since the mid-20th century. Scientists attribute the global warming trend observed since the mid-20 th century to the human expansion of the "greenhouse effect" — warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space. Over the last century, burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil has increased the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO 2 ). This increase happens because the coal or oil burning process combines carbon with oxygen in the air to make CO 2 . Read More What are the effects of climate change? The effects of human-caused global warming are happening now, are irreversible for people alive today, and will worsen as long as humans add greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. We already see effects scientists predicted, such as the loss of sea ice, melting glaciers and ice sheets, sea level rise, and more intense heat waves. Scientists predict global temperature increases from human-made greenhouse gases will continue. Severe weather damage will also increase and intensify. Read More Images of Change Before-and-after images of Earth. Learn More about Images of Change Climate Change Resources Climate Time Machine Climate change in recent history Global Ice Viewer Climate change’s impact on ice Multimedia Vast library of images, videos, graphics, and more En español Creciente biblioteca de recursos en español Climate Data Resources Sea Level Change Observations from Space Established in 2014, this NASA-sponsored team works to improve the understanding of regional relative sea-level change on a range of timescales. They work with partners to translate the latest science and research into actionable information and to communicate how impacts are increasing at the coast. NASA Center for Climate Simulation (NCCS) NCCS provides high performance computing for NASA-sponsored scientists and engineers. The purpose is to enhance NASA capabilities in Earth science, with an emphasis on weather and climate prediction, and to enable future scientific discoveries that will benefit humankind. GISS Surface Temperature Analysis (GISTEMP) NASA’s Goddard Institute of Space Studies assembles one of the world's most trusted global temperature records, using a combination of surface air temperature data acquired by tens of thousands of meteorological stations, as well as sea surface temperature data from ship- and buoy-based instruments. NASA Earth Exchange (NEX) NEX combines state-of-the-art supercomputing, Earth system modeling, and NASA remote sensing data feeds to deliver a work environment for exploring and analyzing terabyte- to petabyte-scale datasets covering large regions, continents or the globe. Global Modeling and Assimilation Office (GMAO) GMAO members perform research, develop models and assimilation systems, and produce quasi-operational products in support of NASA's missions. The Goddard Earth Observing System" (GEOS) family of models is used for applications across a wide range of spatial scales, from kilometers to many tens of kilometers. World of Change NASA Earth Observatory has produced a collection of image series that show some features of Earth that have changed over time due to both natural and human-induced causes. Learn More This false-color image, captured by the Landsat 8 satellite, shows Alaska's Columbia Glacier and the surrounding landscape following the more than 20 kilometer retreat of the glacier between 1986 and 2019. Credit: NASA Earth Observatory National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA&#039;s Mission Join Us Home News &amp; Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG Budget &amp; Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Sep 26, 2025 Page Editor: Kalina Velev Responsible NASA Official for Science: Diana Logreira Did you find what you were looking for? (Required) Yes No Partly What were you looking for? (Required) What were you hoping to accomplish by visiting our website? (Required) ×